---

layout: col-sidebar
title: June 2025 Agenda/Minutes
date: 2025-06-24

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 24 June 2025
- Time: 12PM US EDT, UTC 1600 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2025&month=6&day=24&hour=16&min=0&sec=0&p1=152&p2=176&p3=110&p4=136&p5=179&p6=24&p7=64)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Video Recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HyipSt-Z96o)
  
## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

Board Members present:
- Ricardo Griffith
- Harold Blankenship
- Sam Stepanyan
- Ashwini Siddhi
- Avi Douglen 
- Diego Silva Martins

Apologies:
- Steve Springett


Guests:
- Andrew van der Stock
- Dawn Aitken
- Lauren Thomas
- Hayden Corry
- Starr Brown
- Christian Capellan
- Heather Kennedy
- Chris Barbeau
- Leea Hudson-Wilson

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

**Vote** to change the agenda to include a discussion on marketing (Sponsor: Avi Douglen Second: Ricardo Griffith)

- Diego Martins: YES
- Avi Douglen: YES
- Ashwini Siddhi: YES
- Sam Stepanyan: YES
- Harold Blankenship: YES
- Ricardo Griffith: YES

**Result**: The vote PASSES **6-0**.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - May 2025](/www-board/meetings-historical/2025/202505)

**Vote**
- Diego Martins: YES
- Avi Douglen: YES
- Ashwini Siddhi: YES
- Sam Stepanyan: YES
- Harold Blankenship: YES
- Ricardo Griffith: YES

**Result**: The vote PASSES **6-0**.

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ssyDh6lgG0YU5k_HA46GVFNc-uJCsYhTAlkpfBK36Sg/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance Management Report](/www-board/attachments/202505-finance-summary.pdf)
- [Finance Cash Flow Forecast](/www-board/attachments/202505-finance-cash.pdf)
- [Finance Uncategorized Items](/www-board/attachments/202505-finance-ar.xlsx)

### Executive Reports

#### Andrew van der Stock - Executive Director
- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ssyDh6lgG0YU5k_HA46GVFNc-uJCsYhTAlkpfBK36Sg/edit?usp=sharing)

- Website Redesign: Figma wireframes available for board review; ongoing.
- New EU Entity: Application for IVZW status in Belgium submitted; awaiting government approval. Accountants and bank accounts pending entity approval. Constitutional changes discussed; nominating committee to be established.
- Recruitment: Two positions open; Director of Corporate Support (acting: Heather Kennedy) and Marketing Manager. Internal applications encouraged. Publication of roles to follow once website career functionality is ready.
- 2024 Audit: Fieldwork to begin July 7th. Aim for draft audit by end of September, IRS Form 990 by end of October.
- AppSec USA: Considering hybrid format for AppSec USA; marketing targeting North America primarily.
- Platform Review: Review of all technology platforms, services, and subscriptions in progress for optimization and cost savings.
- GlueUp & Stripe Integration: Issues with revenue categorization affecting financial reporting; ongoing with Harold assisting.
- Chapter and Membership Tickets: Back to normal after delays caused by OWASP Global AppSec Barcelona. Temporary coverage plan for upcoming staff leave in July.
- Commercial Entity Legal Advice: Legal engagement letter pending. Advice expected within 1-2 weeks.
-  WASPY Awards Update by Dawn Aitken: Invitations to WASPY Awards nominees have been sent out; several responses received. Voting to open the week following July 4th, running for approximately two weeks. Timeline for announcement remains on track. 
- Office Coverage: July 4th holiday; several staff on leave following week; coverage plans discussed.

#### Finance Report by Chris Barbeau and Leea Hudson-Wilson - The Charity CFO

- The Charity CFO provided financial summaries for April and May 2025:
- GlueUp integration issue is causing uncategorized income
- Cash Position: Decrease in May due to high accounts payable from EU conference.
- Some income remains uncategorized (GlueUp integration issue).
- Conference venue expenses driving increase in expenses.
- Net Loss: May: $79k.
- Year-to-Date: Income up and $408k over budget; expenses over budget by $105k (mainly project-related). Financial performance tracking well; awaiting full revenue categorization for event P&Ls.
- Membership Income: Under budget, likely due to pending categorization of GlueUp income.
- Uncategorized Funds: Ongoing efforts to clear, mainly due to GlueUp.
- Audit: On schedule.


### NEW BUSINESS

#### 25th Anniversary Celebration

**Background** OWASP is celebrating its 25th anniversary in 2025. The Board is discussing how to celebrate this milestone.

- Call for Ideas: Board members asked to submit ideas for events, speakers, and content.
- 25th Anniversary Working Group: Sam volunteered; general call to the community for participants.
- Goal: Plan first quarter of 2026 events by end of July 2025.


### Committee Reports

Chapter Committee - Charter Discussion: item postponed. Avi to coordinate with chapter committee for draft ready for July meeting.

#### Discussion on extending OWASP Foundation Board Member Terms

**Background** The Board is considering extending the terms of current Board members from two to four years, starting with the 2026 elections.

**Sponsor**: Diego Silva Martins

- Diego proposed amending bylaws to extend board member terms from 2 to 4 years (with biennial elections).
- Discussion: Board expressed concerns about length, burnout, and need for regular turnover; consensus against 4-year terms but open to exploring alternatives. Dawn expressed doubts there is enough time to do anything this year as the Board will need to amend the bylaws and get them approved by August election announcement. 
- Diego to circulate a written proposal for further review; legal feasibility to be explored.

#### Discussion on Marketing 

**Background**: The Board has discussed the need for real marketing efforts on several occasions (covering all of corporate support, event sponsorship, event attendance, training attendance, individual membership and participation, projects, etc etc). We would like to have clarity on the current situation, and discuss how we can move forward effectively. 
- Ongoing concern about insufficient marketing. Importance of targeted, sustained digital campaigns emphasized. Board agreed to prioritize hiring of marketing professional and to allow new hire to shape strategy, with committee support as appropriate.

#### Seek legal advice on OWASP Commercial Entity

**Background**: [OWASP Commercial Entity Proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EWQroUh82LkJ3h25ehGw3sxux4oZpQpgIBGQfb4sRPY/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.blhn7u7g7jf4)

Advice on new commercial entity has been sought, engagement letter soon and will report to the Board by the July Board meeting (or via internal Global Board list)

#### EU Entity Governance and Protections

Due to illness, updates to the EU Entity constitution have yet to be finalized. A general meeting of the new EU Board will need to be called to approve the changes once they are ready.


### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

#### Executive Session - HR

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on July 22 2025, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [July 2025](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202507)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Ricardo Griffith
Second: Avi Douglen
