---

layout: col-sidebar
title: January 2025 Videoconference
date: 2025-01-28

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 28 January 2025
- Time: 12PM US EST, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2025&month=1&day=28&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=152&p2=176&p3=110&p4=136&p5=179&p6=24&p7=64)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://youtu.be/0qwXqFU7p5g)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Harold Blankenship, Avi Douglen, Ricardo Griffith, Kevin Johnson, Ashwini Siddhi, Steve Springett, and Sam Stepanyan.

Guests
Andrew van der Stock, Dawn Aitken, Starr Brown, Kelly Santalucia, Lauren Thomas, Heather Kennedy, Chris Barbeau, Leea Hudson-Wilson.
-->

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - December 2024](/www-board/meetings-historical/2024/202412)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1AwE2n_02Juqn3l3ylS5bzWgcRRxiwXB68Sdd27nxZSY/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance December 2024 Management Report](/www-board/attachments/202412-management-report.pdf)
- [Finance December 2024 AR Aging Summary](/www-board/attachments/202501-ar-aging-summary.pdf)
- [Finance December 2024 Uncategorized Income](/www-board/attachments/202501-uncat-income.xlsx)
- [Finance December 2024 Uncategorized Expense](/www-board/attachments/202501-uncat-expense.xlsx)

### e-Votes and Special Meeting Motions to read into minutes

#### Motion to appoint Diego Martins to the Board of Directors

**Background** In light of Kevin Johnson's resignation from the OWASP Board of Directors, a motion is proposed to appoint Diego Silva Martins to fill the remainder of his term.

- [Vote](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1gZMozHaKdCbPpif89vW8Zp0fvRQbySqc7PwFyae3TM0/edit)

Motion: ""Resolved, that the Board appoints Diego Silva Martins to the OWASP Board of Directors, effective immediately, to serve for the remainder of Kevin Johnson's term."

- [Vote](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1gZMozHaKdCbPpif89vW8Zp0fvRQbySqc7PwFyae3TM0/edit#responses)

**Sponsor:** Ricardo Griffith
**Second:** Avi Douglen

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Motion to Elect Chair

**Background** The previous Chair will conduct nominations from the floor for the position of Chair. The Chair will then call for a vote. Once elected, the new Chair will assume the role of Chair for the remainder of the meeting.

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the 2025 Chair of the Board of Directors is elected as follows: Ricardo Griffith"

**Sponsor:** Avi Douglen
**Second:** Sam Stepanyan

NB: At this point, the acting Chair will hand the meeting over to the new Chair, who will run the rest of the meeting.

#### Motion to Elect Vice Chair

**Background** The Chair will conduct nominations from the floor for the position of Vice Chair. The Chair will then call for a vote. 

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the 2025 Vice Chair of the Board of Directors is elected as follows: Steve Springett"

**Sponsor:** Ricardo Griffith
**Second:** Diego Martins

#### Motion to Elect Treasurer

**Background** The Chair will conduct nominations from the floor for the position of Treasurer. The Chair will then call for a vote.

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the 2025 Treasurer of the Board of Directors is elected as follows: Harold Blankenship"

**Sponsor:** Ricardo Griffith
**Second:** Diego Martins

#### Motion to Elect Secretary

**Background** The Chair will conduct nominations from the floor for the position of Secretary. The Chair will then call for a vote. Once elected, the new Secretary will assume the role of Secretary for the remainder of the meeting, collecting minutes from the previous Secretary as necessary.

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the 2025 Secretary of the Board of Directors is elected as follows: Sam Stepanyan"

**Sponsor:** Harold Blankenship
**Second:** Ricardo Griffith

#### Education Committee Status Update and Charter Proposal Discussion

Shruti Kulkarni will present the Education Committee's status update and discuss the Education committee's charter.

#### Discussion on the 2025 Budget

**Background** The 2025 Budget is nearing completion. This will be an update to the Budget 2025, and when it will be ready for an e-vote or a vote at the next meeting.

#### Chapter Support - Glue Up Discussion

**Background** Starr to provide an update Glue Up chapter support and the status of the Chapter Support program.

#### Barcelona Website Discussion

**Background** The Barcelona website (https://barcelona.globalappsec.org) is now up. A quick update on our marketing activities around Barcelona from Lauren.

#### Discussion on Policy Review Schedule

**Background** Sam will lead a discussion on policy review priorities and schedule for 2025. We are looking for approximately 1/3rd of all policies to be reviewed in 2025. 

#### New Committees

**Background** Funding and Communications committees are proposed to be formed. The Board will discuss the formation of these committees. Governance of the committee policy, especially relating to the terms, elections, and procedures being followed by committees.

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on February 25 2025, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [February 2025](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202502)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA
