---

layout: col-sidebar
title: March 2023 Videoconference
date: 2023-03-16

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 16 March 2023
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2023&month=03&day=16&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=16&p3=110&p4=197&p5=217&p6=136&p7=179&p8=438)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/89158414919?pwd=K1AvbkpTbDIra2pUV0swbnFISG0rQT09)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

Board Members
- Vandana Verma Sehgal, Grant Ongers, Avi Douglen, Glenn ten Cate, Mark Curphey, Matt Tesauro, Bil Corry.

Guests
- Andrew van der Stock

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### OLD BUSINESS

### STRATEGIC DISCUSSIONS

Discuss previously parked planned activities:

- Future Board Structure

Mark asked that we clarify the intended structure of the board, Grant walked the board through the current structure and the options previously discussed.

Mark Curphey then asked each board member what they thought was required from a change perspective to make the Foundation able to respond to the open letter. He then resigned his position on the board.

Activities parked for the next session:
- Strategic plan for raising funding
- Strategic plan for Projects
- Strategic plan for Events
- Role of Committees 
- Tooling for the future
- Staffing for the future

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on 17 March 2023, at 10:30 pm US Eastern Time.

- [17 March 2023](https://owasp.org/meetings/202303.17.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair (Grant Ongers)
Second: Vice Chair (Avi Douglen)

***
