---

layout: col-sidebar
title: April 2023 Agenda/Minutes 
date: 2023-04-18

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 18 April 2023
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1600 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2023&month=04&day=18&hour=16&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=16&p3=110&p4=197&p5=217&p6=136&p7=179&p8=438)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Recording](https://youtu.be/JUKX889_A2M)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

Board Members
- Grant Ongers
- Avi Douglen
- Bil Corry
- Glenn ten Cate
- Vandana Verma Sehgal
- Matt Tesauro

Guests
- Andrew van der Stock
- Shelby Graham
- Dawn Aitken
- Harold Blankenship
- Kelly Santalucia
- Lauren Thomas
- various community members


### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - March 28, 2023](/meetings-historical/202303)

**Vote**
- Glenn ten Cate - Yes
- Bil Corry - Yes
- Matt Tesauro - Yes
- Avi Douglen - Yes
- Vandana Verma - Yes
- Grant Ongers - Yes

**Passed:  6-0**

### PRE-READING MATERIAL and REPORTS

- [Executive Director Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_52HxREC_y0mkeS9cesDy1nS2hkoIx4nTJ3qTNffueM/edit?usp=sharing)

NB: the following narrative and package were uploaded *after* the Board meeting, but are included here for completeness.

- [Finance Board Narrative](/attachments/202303-finance-narrative.docx)
- [Finance Board Package](/attachments/202303-finance-package.xlsx)

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Confirm Board member vacancy Director replacement

**Background** The Board has selected a replacement Director to fill the vacancy caused by Mark Curphey's resignation.

**Motion** "Resolved, that the Board affirms that ________ will be appointed to the Board for the remainder of Mark Curphey's term, once all qualifying requirements have been met."

**Revised Motion** "to table Director vacancy.  Motion Grant Ongers, Second Matt Tesauro"

**Vote**
- Bil Corry - Yes
- Vandana Verma - Yes
- Avi Douglen - Yes
- Matt Tesauro - Yes
- Glenn ten Cate - Yes
- Grant Ongers - Yes

**Passed:  6-0**

#### Discussion on OWASP SAMM Funding Request 2023

**Background** OWASP SAMM made the following funding request for $800k USD over four years:

"To expand our impact on software security and help organizations worldwide improve their security posture, we seek to accelerate our SAMM project significantly. Our proposal is to augment our current team of volunteers with additional paid project contributors and infrastructure. By investing in the SAMM project, SAMM will become even more effective and accessible, supporting organizations in their journey towards secure software development."

- [Funding Request 2023](/attachments/SAMM%20Grant%20Request%202023.pdf)
- [Project Funding Requirements](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/10zSKG3C06njOZqtkojWYq-n1TvOjxmGTdfmlajOQPrI/edit#gid=0)
- [https://owasporg.atlassian.net/browse/OSD-4717](https://owasporg.atlassian.net/browse/OSD-4717)

Discussion how to operationalize a funding model that works within OWASP's budget, fundraising possibilities, vendor neutrality, through the Chapter Committee, and other alternatives.

**Action**
 - Glenn to attend next project meeting
 - Matt to meet with Seba @ RSA

#### Discussion of projects tagging onto flagship projects

**Background** We have several Top 10 projects and *ASVS projects that aim to complement the original project. We need a discussion on if all similar projects that tie themselves to a flagship project should be a flagship project themselves, how we maintain the same methodology and quality, and ensure that projects aren't just vanity projects or captured projects. What is the role of the Board, the Project Committee, and the Foundation in ensuring that such projects meet expectations and quality bars. Are there additional project types or categorizations that are needed?

**Action**
 - Avi, Glenn and Grant will review to create a solution
 

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT


#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on 23 May 2023, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [23 May 2023](https://owasp.org/meetings/202305.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Grant Ongers motions, Vandana Verma second
- Grant Ongers - Aye
- Avi Douglen - Aye
- Vandana Verma - Aye
- Bil Corry - Aye
- Glenn ten Cate - Aye
