---

layout: col-sidebar
title: October 2023 Agenda/Minutes
date: 2023-10-24

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 24 October 2023
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1600 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2023&month=10&day=24&hour=16&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=16&p3=110&p4=197&p5=217&p6=136&p7=179&p8=438)
- Location: Remote
- [Zoom Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/10GDb8Ej8kP1dcB8d9q0pAiePojWztMQI/view?usp=sharing)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

Board Members
- Avi Douglen
- Vandana Verma Sehgal
- Bil Corry
- Matt Tesauro
- Richardo Griffith

Guests
- Andrew van der Stock
- Dawn Aitken
- Harold Blankenship
- Kelly Santalucia
- Lauren Thomas

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - September 2023](/www-board/meetings-historical/202309)

Vote:
- Vandana Verma Sehgal - Yes
- Bil Corry - Yes
- Matt Tesauro - Yes
- Richardo Griffith - Yes
- Avi Douglen - Yes


### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1jllMIHOMYBczR6MVYX_3PuVxpbWh1lA0twgDNsGvSL8/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance Board Narrative](TBA)
- [Finance Board Package](TBA)

### Staff REPORTS

- Executive Director - see Board Summary
- Operations - see Board Summary
- Chapters and Membership - see Board Summary
- Projects and Technology - see Board Summary
- Events and Corporate Support - see Board Summary

### NEW BUSINESS

No new business this month.

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

#### Prospective Compliance Committee Member

A discussion with a prospective Compliance Committee member - Rick Mello

Motion: "It is moved and decided that Richardo Mello well be appointed to the Compliance Committee pursuant to completion of his OWASP Membership.  Avi Douglen motions, Ricardo Griffith seconds"

# Vote:
Vandana Verma - Yes
Bil Corry - Yes
Matt Tesauro - Yes
Richaro Griffith - Yes
Avi Douglen - Yes

# Passed:  5-0

#### Update from the Projects Committee

A discussion on the Projects Committee's progress, led by the Project Committee Chair and Harold Blankenship. An outcome will be to understand how best to support the Projects Committee.

#### Discussion on AppSec DC events and AppSec Singapore

A quick rundown of AppSec DC events that the Board might wish to attend, and the financial results of AppSec Singapore.

#### Advertising on OWASP social media

A discussion on recent social media posts, and the best way forward to ensure vendor neutrality, led by Avi Douglen.

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on 28 November 2023, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [November 2023](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202311.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Avi
Second: Richardo
