---

layout: col-sidebar
title: November 2023 Agenda/Minutes
date: 2023-11-28

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 28 November 2023
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2023&month=11&day=28&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=16&p3=110&p4=197&p5=217&p6=136&p7=179&p8=438)
- Location: Remote
- [Recording](https://youtu.be/1mfh31r_90Y)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER


Board Members
- Ricardo Griffith
- Matt Tesauro
- Bil Corry
- Grant Ongers
- Avi Douglen
- Vandana Verma Sehgal (arrived at 11:33 AM US Central)

Future board members in attendence:
- Steve Springett
- Kevin Johnson
- Sam Stepanyan

Guests
- Andrew van der Stock
- Dawn Aitken
- Harold Blankenship
- Kelly Santalucia
- Lauren Thomas
- Sara, Chris and Leea from The Charity CFO


### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://policy.owasp.org/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://policy.owasp.org/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://policy.owasp.org/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - October 2023](/meetings-historical/202310)

Vote:

- Ricardo Griffith - Yes
- Matt Tesauro - Yes
- Bil Corry - Yes
- Avi Douglen - Yes
- Grant Ongers - Abstain

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [Executive Director Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1E64SzqlfHXH602ff4vurlSpCtXAo0VfiG1uN8cwrDL4/edit?usp=sharing)
- [October 2023 Management Report](/attachments/202310-management-report.pdf)
- [October 2023 Financial Report](/attachments/202310-cash-flow.pdf)
- [October 2023 Events P&L](/attachments/202310-events-pnl.xlsx)

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Financial Year 2022 External Audit Update

**Background** The 2022 audit results are in. A quick update on the audit results, and the next steps. The management letter will be discussed in a meeting the day after the Board meeting. The audit report will be published on the website once the management letter has been discussed. If I have the public 990T, I will also publish that at the same time.

- [2022 OWASP 990 for public inspection](/attachments/2022-owasp-990.pdf)

#### 2023 Global AppSec DC Update

**Background** The Global AppSec DC conference was a success. A quick update on the conference from the OWASP Foundation staff.

#### Membership price increase

**Background** The current membership prices of OWASP membership hasn’t changed since December 2010. Since then, CPI has increased by 40%, which means a 40% real reduction in membership income since 2010.

Although we have had a lot of new individual members since 2010, the reality is that our costs have also increased to manage the program. Since 2021, the membership program has been profitable in its own right, as well as providing members with membership benefits.

A board discussion on the merits of a price increase.

[Proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GBaWtZT1qD4HgiRLTvmwKLCKCqbBVKD_h-O1Z6wZtMo/edit#heading=h.n6ll8y4rmdlu)

#### Board membership liaison update

A quick update on the Board committee liaison program.

#### Policy sub-committee update

Let's get the Policy Sub-Committee up and running.

#### 2024 January Board Planning Meeting

Each year, the Board should meet in January. Please propose dates for the January 2024 Board Planning Meeting.

* Set for January 11, 9:30 AM to 1:30 PM (US central)

#### 2024 Board Summit

The Board should meet in person early in the year. Let's discuss the options for a Q1 meeting - when and where?

* Doodle will be sent out to determine a time and place.

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on 19 December 2023, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [December 2023](https://board.owasp.org/meetings/202312.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: Ricardo

