---

layout: col-sidebar
title: July 2022 Videoconference
date: 2022-07-26

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 26 July 2022
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2022&month=7&day=26&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=16&p3=110&p4=197&p5=217&p6=136&p7=179&p8=438)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/83392905205?pwd=bXpFOG1oSEMwUTJBTjlQMzVsT1FQdz09)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

**Board Members**

- Vandana Verma Sehgal
- Grant Ongers
- Avi Douglen
- Glenn ten Cate
- Joubin Jabbari 
- Bil Corry

**Guests**

- Andrew van der Stock
- Harold Blankenship
- Dawn Aitken
- Kelly Santalucia  
- Tom Pappas
- Lauren Thomas
- Lisa Jones

- Teresa Huff
- Gregor Spagnolo
- Bjorn Kimminich 
- Jonathan Armstrong
- Josh Grossman
- Nick Benson 
- Rowland Johnson 
- Tom Brennan 


### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - June 2022](/www-board/meetings-historical/202206)
  - Vandana Verma motions, Grant Ongers seconds

**Vote:**

- Vandana Verma: Yes 
- Grant Ongers: Yes
- Avi Douglen: Yes
- Glenn ten Cate: Yes
- Joubin Jabbari: Yes
- Bil Corry: Yes
- Martin Knobloch: Absent

**Passes 6-0**


### REPORTS AND PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1dwBLhSDu3dmcbsZJFW32GWqph9bSvG2SH_7PGfX0cKo/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance Narrative](/www-board/attachments/202206-finance-narrative.docx)
- [Finance Package](/www-board/attachments/202206-finance-package.xlsx)
- [Grant Strategy Proposal](/www-board/attachments/202207-grant-strategy-proposal.pdf)
- [Društvo OWASP](https://owasp.si/)

### e-Votes and Special Meeting Motions to read into minutes

None.

### NEW BUSINESS

None.

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

#### Grant and Fundraising Strategy

OWASP is in the very nascent stage of fundraising. The last time we attempted to obtain a grant, an offer was made to buy us, which shows how unprepared we are for serious fundraising efforts.

A short presentation by Teresa Huff, Nonprofit Strategist and Grant Writing Mentor, discussing the development and implementation of a self-sustaining and mature fundraising and grant writing program at OWASP.

- [Grant Strategy Proposal](/www-board/attachments/202207-grant-strategy-proposal.pdf)

#### Maribor Chapter Discussion

The Maribor Chapter is run by some of OWASP's most respected and longest active members. To discuss the background and a resolution to this situation, Milan Gabor and Gregor Spagnolo have agreed to meet with the Board.

During COVID, the Maribor chapter has failed to achieve meeting requirements. During the BAU review to start the process of deactivation, it was discovered that a new entity has been registered in Slovenia, an EU nation. The entity is called "OWASP Association":

https://owasp.si/

"A non-profit organization founded with the aim of realizing common interests in the field of information security and related fields. The association also acts as a local group of the global organization OWASP, which works to improve software security. We are active in Slovenia and the wider region." (Google Translate)

The signing authority for creating new entities resides with the Board, and not chapter leaders. Under the Code of Conduct, participants, members and leaders agree to abide by all policies. The Chapter policy explicitly prohibits signing contracts, as does the signing authority policy. Sanctions under the Code of Conduct:

"Depending on the severity of the breach, the member or participant can accept the 30-day suspension, or in serious cases, the member or participant will be referred to the Compliance Committee for a decision regarding their ongoing participation or membership by the OWASP Board at the next available Board meeting."

As this is a first time breach, and is likely done in good faith, we will need a decision on how to proceed from the Board after the discussion.

#### Discussion on Developer Conferences

Outreach Committee to present Developer Conference proposal.

#### Discussion on Project Summit

Harold Blankenship to present an update on the AppSec San Francisco Project Summit.

#### Executive Session about potential Partnership

There will be an adjournment into an executive session to discuss a potential partnership with another non-profit. This may lead to a vote, so quorum should be maintained.


### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on August 23, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [August 2022](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202208.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Vandana Verma
Second: Avi Douglen

---

### Staff Reports

#### Executive Director

See slides

#### Finance

See narrative and financial package.
