---

layout: col-sidebar
title: November 2020 Videoconference
date: 2020-11-24

---

## Meeting Details

- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2020&month=11&day=24&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=919&p3=78&p4=136&p5=137&p6=176&p7=179)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://zoom.us/j/675935446)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Gary Robinson, Grant Ongers, Martin Knobloch, Owen Pendlebury, Richard Greenberg, Sherif Mansour, Vandana Verma Sehgal

Guests
Andrew van der Stock, Tom Pappas, Dawn Aitken, Emily Berman, Harold Blankenship, Lisa Jones, Alonna Stock, Kelly Santalucia
-->

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes](/www-board/minutes/202010)
- [Events Special Board Meeting Minutes](/)

### REPORTS

#### Organizational KPIs

Due by Friday, November 21 2020

- Membership (x from Last Month)
- Momentum: x visitors to website last month (x compared to 2019)
- Operations:
  - x% of Service Desk tickets closed within SLA (compare last month)
  - x% of Non-Funding tickets were closed within SLA (compare last month)
- Money: $x Operating, $x cash assets.

#### Financial

Due by Friday, November 21 2020

#### Executive Director Report

The 2021 Board of Director election was run successfully, and Bil Corry and Joubin Jabbari will be joining the Board, with Martin Knobloch continuing. I have met with both Bil and Joubin to discuss their agenda, and how the Foundation may help to progress that. I will endeavor to have the same meeting with Martin in the next couple of weeks. As a Board, you are always welcome to make time with me: [https://calend.ly/owasped](https://calend.ly/owasped)

A Board strategy meeting for early January has been scheduled for January 13-14, 2021 at 9 am US PST / 12 pm US EST / 5 pm GMT on both days for 2 hours each. A meeting invite has been sent that allows a one hour overrun on both days in case of enthusiastic discussion.

All of the Board meetings in 2021 have been scheduled, and a meeting invite sent to all 2021 Board members. Please accept it, but also remember that Board members are responsible for being at published meetings, and should not rely upon meeting invites from the Foundation alone. The 2021 Board meetings schedule on the OWASP website has been updated.

November has been a busy month for the staff. We have achieved quite a few things, such as implementing complementary membership for active leaders, closing out a successful OWASP AppSec Virtual that will help meet our budget Z forecasts, and moving forward on the 2021 Budget and finance reform. All of the policies enacted by the Board over the last few months, including the bylaw changes that occurred on November 1, have been uploaded and are now in force.

The 2021 Budget draft should be ready in time for the December meeting, with an update on progress below.

A sensitive internal matter to the Board is progressing, and should be completed before the end of November.

### e-Votes to read into minutes

#### e-Vote to approve reviewed policies

This motion is to approve the virtual elements of the events strategy, which intends to spend up to \$41,500 with gross income of \$259,000, likely netting \$217,500 profit.

Motion: "Resolved, the Foundation is permitted to plan and run the virtual component of the events strategy, with an approved budget of $41,500 to run the nominated events throughout 2021."

Sponsor: Sherif Mansour
Second: Vandana Verma

Vote: TBA once the vote has concluded

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Motion to approve reviewed policies

Note: The following policy was approved in October, but it may not have been clear that the top part of the policy had been through the community policy review process.
- [Code of Conduct](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/code-of-conduct)

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the following reviewed policies are approved. The Foundation shall upload the approved text within 5 days of this vote to the OWASP policy website:

- [Branding Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/branding)
- [Leaders Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/leader)

Feedback for these policies has been published to the global-board list, and can be found at:

- [Feedback](https://owasp.org/www-staff/projects/202010-policy-review.html)

Sponsor: Vandana Verma
Second: Owen Pendlebury

#### Motion to approve Global AppSec Australia 2021 and establish an Australian entity

**Motion**: "Resolved, the Foundation is directed to run an in person Global AppSec in Australia, which requires setting up an Australian entity. The proposed budget is \$290k in income, \$234k in expenses, for a projected net profit of \$55k."

Sponsor: Vandana Verma
Second: TBA

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

#### Information on events as requested by the Board

Information relating to the questions on notice that the Board sought at the Special events meeting will be presented to the Board. Hopefully, this can lead to putting the two votes currently in the December meeting forward as e-Votes.

#### Budget update & finance reform discussion

Andrew van der Stock will show a presentation on the current state of finance policy reform, which will hopefully lead into discussion:

- Balances
- Expense reform
- Event reform
- Grant reform
- Awards and Scholarships
- Sponsors and Bartering reform

### ADJOURNMENT

***

### Staff Reports

#### Events

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nC4LIHSyztQ6O-Kpsw36T2-7lGk_YCFkWfWZugLto9E/edit?ts=5fb6aff4

#### Sponsorship

*Sponsor Survey*

The survey was sent to 15 companies on Tuesday, November 17th. Ten out of the 15 companies who were sent the survey have replied as of today. The results can be found here: https://www.surveymonkey.com/stories/SM-WPP8F6PY/  If you huver of over the question, it will show you the entire question.

I have many companies who are patiently waiting for our 2021 event/activity calendar. With all due respect, I strongly believe the sooner we make a decision the better we will be in 2021.

*Global AppSec Australia*

* After speaking with Daniel and Emily last evening, his impression is if this event were to move forward in Oct 2021 it would most likely be a virtual event.

*Corporate Membership*
* \$55k invoiced for November (so far)

#### Projects & Technology

- Proceeding apace to update OWASP automations and data integrity; somewhat delayed due to unforeseen issues with invalid customer deletion process, updates to membership management and zoom provisioning, and implementing a stronger CAPTCHA on donations.
- Project Graduations are starting to come in from the Project Committee; Project Handbook also being worked on.  Other project details at https://owasp.org/projects/status/
- Event tool will likely see updates prior to the middle of next year to come more in line with Events team and regional event expectations.
- May not be apparent but there is some fantastic work going on pushing/updating the www-community content with much thanks to Rick Mitchell for keeping that moving forward these past few months.

#### Operations

- Onboarding of New Board Members - waiting for the revised agreement to be finalized.  We will be asking all Board Members to sign new agreement due to the changes.
- Reviewed and updated Lascon 2019 and Global AppSec 2019 TelAviv P&L - awaiting Virtual's to update and finalized.
Setup process to receive credit card statements when received my accounting.  I will now send them the coding so there be less issues on future P&Ls.
- Salesforce - running data reports since Salesforce access ends at the end of the year.
- Researching training videos for Board Members

#### Chapters and Membership

- 2 new chapter opened
- One chapter closed that was on the sanctioned country list Tehran
- Moratorium on the closing of any chapters till March 31, 2021.
- 205 new members for Virtual Global AppSec