---

layout: col-sidebar
title: August 2020 Videoconference
date: 2020-08-25

---

# Meeting Details
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2020&month=8&day=25&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=919&p3=78&p4=136&p5=137&p6=176&p7=179)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://zoom.us/j/675935446)

## AGENDA

## CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Gary Robinson, Grant Ongers, Martin Knobloch, Owen Pendlebury, Richard Greenberg, Sherif Mansour, Vandana Verma Sehgal

Guests
Mike McCamon, Tom Pappas, Dawn Aitken, Emily Berman, Harold Blankenship, Lisa Jones, Sibah Poede, Kelly Santalucia
-->

## CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

## APPROVAL OF MINUTES

[Previous Meeting Minutes](/www-board/minutes/202007)

## REPORTS

### Organizational KPIs
- Membership (x from Last Month)
- Momentum: x visitors to website last month (x compared to 2019)
- Operations:
  - x% of Service Desk tickets closed within SLA (compare last month)
  - x% of Non-Funding tickets were closed within SLA (compare last month)
- Money: $x Operating, $x cash assets.

### Financial Report

### Executive Director Report (draft)

See below

## OLD BUSINESS

### Motion to investigate and update Board training

Background: See above for a related update from the Executive Director. Recent events have shown that the Board needs to have access and use modern Board training materials. 

Motion: "It is resolved to instruct the OWASP Foundation to refresh the OWASP BoD learning material requirements. Going forward the foundation can regularly review and recommend changes to BoD learning materials. The updated materials will need to be approved by the sitting board at the time, and all current/new board members for 2021 onwards will need to take on the required learning material." 

Sponsor: Sherif Mansour
Second: Grant Ongers

### Motion: to change bylaws preventing Foundation funds being used to pay for Foundation memberships

Motion: "It is resolved that to address the Compliance Committee's recommendation that Foundation funds not be used for membership and that any such paid membership (if any exists) shall constitute a non-voting membership. As this will affect the eligibility of AppSec Cali 2020 attendees who were granted membership paid by the Foundation, this amendment will be effective November 1, 2020. 

Amend section 3.02 (Qualifications) by adding the following italic text:

Foundation funds should not be used to pay for membership. Foundation paid memberships of any class, from any funding source including conferences, chapters, projects, donations, etc, shall not constitute paid membership nor possess voting rights."

Sponsor: TBA
Second: TBA

Previous Doodle: https://doodle.com/poll/ua8s8qbehwcumb44 (now invalid)

## NEW BUSINESS

### Motion to amend or create a policy to formally adopt Robert's Rules of Order

Motion: "The Foundation is directed to create or update any necessary bylaw or policies that govern Board meetings and any associated informative documents to state that Robert's Rules of Order are adopted for OWASP Board Meetings and Special Meetings. Projects, Chapters, and Committees can adopt RRO for their meetings if they so choose, but it is not required by the Foundation."

Add a new clause to Section 3:

"Section 3.1x ADOPTION OF ROBERTS RULES OF ORDER

The rules contained in the current edition of Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised, or the new edition due to be published September 1, 2020, shall govern the OWASP Foundation Board meetings in all cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with the bylaws, and any special rules of order the Board may adopt."

The Foundation is directed to add consistent language to all relevant Board governance policies and Board governance informational pages. 

Sponsor: Owen Pendlebury
Second: Sherif Mansour

### Motion to formally adjourn the Special Board Meeting of August 11, 2020

Motion: "It is resolved that after technical issues cut short the Special Meeting before adjournment, the Board motions that the Special Board Meeting of August 11, 2020 is formally adjourned."

Sponsor: Owen Pendlebury
Second: Sherif Mansour

### Motion to postpone AppSec Dublin 

Motion: "It is resolved that in light of the uncertainties around the COVID pandemic, the Foundation is authorized to make best efforts to postpone to 2022 or cancel the contract under force majeure the Dublin event booking, for the least fees possible. If the Dublin event is postponed to 2022, Berlin will become the 2023 location for an EU based Global AppSec. A replacement virtual event may be authorized by the Board after the conclusion of the October 2020 AppSec Days Virtual event, depending on financial performance."

Sponsor: Owen Pendlebury
Second: Sherif Mansour

### Motion to consider if Richard Greenberg was conflicted in the Special Board vote 

Background: The Compliance Committee has recommended that the Board should vote on if the vote on an exemption to allow Richard Greenberg to run in the 2020 elections should be considered conflicted, and if so, what should happen as a result. The motion was sponsored, discussed, and voted on by Richard Greenberg. The Compliance Committee found that Richard had broken no bylaws and the vote was valid.

Motion: "It is resolved that Richard Greenberg was conflicted in the vote held on August 11, 2020."

If this motion passes, a subsidariary motion will be required to be drawn up at the Board meeting to determine the course of action, which could include no action, re-vote, or other actions as the Board sees fit. 

Sponsor: TBA
Second: TBA

## COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### Background Commentary on Compliance Committee Ruling on Richard Greenberg vote

The Executive Director initiated a Compliance Committee ruling on the result of the Richard Greenberg vote, in part to confirm that the vote is valid (it is), and what the minutes should say (see the motions above), and if we need to formally adjourn the previous special meeting (we should). As a result, there were several recommendations that led to further motions as above, and some business for the Board to discuss and decide. 

The Compliance Committee report on this vote recommmends the Board discuss and consider adopting the following recommendations:

* Our bylaws and policies make no mention of Robert's Rules of Order (RRO). The manner of running our Board meetings currently does not require nor is necessarily consistent with RRO, even though we have done so in the past and assumed this is the case. In my view, this led to a highly contentious vote that had irregulatories under RRO, which sections 7.01 - 7.04 model. In my view, this would have led the  Richard Greenberg vote to be (3-2) and thus still passed, but without all the confusion and community disquiet that resulted. I have made a motion above that OWASP should adopt RRO formally in policy and bylaws for Board.
* No proxy voting. The State of Delaware (where OWASP was incorporated in 2004) does not permit Board proxy voting. As a result of this ruling, Martin's proxy votes in last month's minutes will need to be marked as "Absent" in the minutes, and he will not be considered as part of the quorum of the special meeting. As a result, not vote changed result. The Compliance Committee recommends that proxy voting to be discussed by the Board, and if desired, to vote to implement it if that is the desired outcome. 
* The Board should formally adjourn the special meeting if we are adhering to RRO, which I have made a motion above in New Business. 
* The Board should vote on if the vote was conflicted, and what, if anything, should happen as a result. 

I would strongly encourage the Board to make a final, well run determination of this matter to allow the issue to be put behind us, get behind the result as one, allow the community to heal, and move on. 

### Introduction of two independent directors

The OWASP Board has historically and currently been made up of many leaders of OWASP. No matter how impassioned they are about application security, our Directors historically do not necessarily have the independance, legal, or governance experience of US 501 (c) 3 not for profit boards, or fully understand the legal implications of all relevant Delaware and Federal tax laws and regulations that are necessary for a Board to make sound decisions.

The Board should discuss adding two new Independent directors to improve governance, such as legal counsel with not for profit expertise, a Compliance Committee member or similar. This would raise the size of the Board to 9. The Independant Directors should be appointed by the incoming 2021 Board by the appointment process, but not necessarily be subject to the incoming changes to appointment term limits as each incoming Board may wish to appoint the same legal counsel year on year, for example. If 9 votes is too unweildly, a future board may want to consider reducing the number of Board seats back to 7 over time by removing 1 open Director slot per election in 2021 and 2022, whilst retaining the two independant directors. 

Adding independant directors allows Directors to come from all parts of the world - a key mission goal - whilst addressing compliance or legal risks that all Directors may unknowingly take on due to their fidicary duties as a Director, or even basic items such as meeting governance such as Robert's Rules of Order. This proposal retains our community's voice they need, but also helps improve governance of OWASP. 

If this is agreeable, a motion should be drafted and brought forward to a future board meeting. 

## ADJOURNMENT

## Staff Reports and Documents for reference

* Finance (Tom Pappas)
* Chapters and Members (Lisa)
* Events (Emily & Alonna)
* Sponsorship (Kelly)
* Projects (Harold)

## Executive Director Report

The operational plan is slowly coming together, based around three themes: "Survive, Refocus on Mission, and Thrive". I will be making a draft available in the weeks coming. As part of "Survive", I will be ending or discouraging Foundation activities that have limited mission focus, excessive costs for return on investment, or otherwise is not an essential activity that is either not highly visible nor used by our members. We must concentrate our efforts on executing the "Refocus on mission" - doing new things and getting our message out to developers and our industry, and "Thrive", where grants, fundraising, and donations are a key goal.

I've called to schedule a virtual face to face Board meeting. I propose this to be 2 x 4 hour sessions held over consecutive days. Hopefully, by the time of the Board meeting, this will be scheduled. I look forward to seeing you all there. 

I humbly request the Board focus on strategies for the survival of OWASP and our mission. During our prep call, Sherif proposed the formation of a Board sub-committee or similar to allow the ad hoc participation of the Board, myself, and our community on strategic topics essential for OWASP's survival. I strongly urge this takes place. I would dearly love the Board to actively discuss their vision for the future of OWASP with myself and the community, so that we can emerge from the pandemic a stronger Foundation, with deep and integrated links with developers and our industry, and a stronger brand. 

I am saddened over the recent public disputes continuing in relation to decisions made by the Board or the Foundation, or about our bylaws, our policies, and necessary reform. Reform is never easy, but I do ask that the Board - per the [Board of Directors Code of Conduct](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/board-code-of-conduct) - after discussing a motion with passion and independence for the benefit of the Foundation you lead rather than any other interests, that once a vote passes the Board  comes together as one and supports the vote. 

By the time of the Board meeting, I will have investigated access to ongoing Board education. I hope to make this available to all existing Directors, Candidates, and after the election, our new Directors. I would encourage the Board to review your induction materials, [our bylaws](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws), the [OWASP Board Member Code of Conduct](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/board-code-of-conduct), and [Robert's Rules of Order](https://www.boardeffect.com/blog/roberts-rules-of-order-cheat-sheet/). If you are missing either of your induction books, please contact Dawn for a new copy, or please expense a e-book purchase. Dawn can send you the book details if you wish to have it in electronic format. Once the new version of the Robert's Rules of Order comes out in September, I will get a physical copy sent to all Board members for their reference.  

The minutes of the Special Board meeting held on August 11, 2020, had to be modified to take into account the lack of proxy voting. This did not affect the outcome of any vote. The major change is that Martin Knobloch is to be marked Absent (with apologies), and to strike his votes from the record. I will be investigating if we could introduce proxy voting, but for now, this means the minutes. 

Recently, a milestone payment of $60k was needing to be approved. As this was a budgeted expense in Budget Forecast Z, this was approved by the ED / Chair co-approving the payment under the Signatory Policy 2.0. These amounts were agreed with the original contract signed with the AV company, CEAVCO, back in May. This milestone downpayment allows us to open the registrations and to start the process of speaker recording. The conference budget proposes a potential income of \$742,875.00, and potential expenses of \$276,868.08, for a budgeted profit of \$466,006.92 for AppSec Virtual. A key portion of this profit is due to the AV platform, which covers the recording and editing of speakers' sessions, registrations, expo, training, keynotes, and the event itself. 

In terms of financial risk, we have seen a number of sponsors pull out of AppSec Virtual after a poor Black Hat expo experience for many vendors. I believe our vendor expo platform is better than what I personally experienced at Black Hat. Our events team are working on ways to raise the attractiveness of visiting sponsor booths, especially as all the talks will be available to watch for a 21 day period. We are working on strategies to retain sponsors, including offering a monthly payment model to soften the blow of a huge upfront cost. I will continue to keep you informed. 

***
