---

layout: col-sidebar
title: October 2020 Videoconference
date: 2020-10-20

---

# {{ page.date }}

## Meeting Details
- OWASP Public Board Meeting
- Date: October 20, 2020
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2020&month=2&day=18&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=919&p3=78&p4=136&p5=137&p6=176&p7=179)
- Location: Videoconferencing
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://zoom.us/j/675935446)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Gary Robinson, Grant Ongers, Martin Knobloch, Owen Pendlebury, Richard Greenberg, Sherif Mansour, Vandana Verma Sehgal

Guests
Andrew van der Stock, Mike McCamon, Tom Pappas, Dawn Aitken, Emily Berman, Harold Blankenship, Lisa Jones, Sibah Poede, Kelly Santalucia
-->

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

### Approval of Minutes

Chair: Are there any corrections or further corrections to the minutes? 

**Motion:** "There being no corrections to the minutes, the minutes are approved as read."

* [Previous Meeting Minutes](/www-board/minutes/202009)

Sponsor:
Second:

###  REPORTS

#### Organizational KPIs
- Membership (x from Last Month)
- Momentum: x visitors to website last month (x compared to 2019)
- Operations:
  - x% of Service Desk tickets closed within SLA (compare last month)
  - x% of Non-Funding tickets were closed within SLA (compare last month)
- Money: $x Operating, $x cash assets.

#### Financial Summary

TBA

* Board Summary
* Balances Summary
* Financial Package

#### Executive Director Summary

* Board Source board education was procured and the Board invited.
* Legal review of our contracts, bylaws and other activities is concluding.
* Work has started on executing the Operating Plan, particularly around expense policy reform. Town halls will be coming soon to discuss these changes.  
* A new project management tool was procured to help drive completion and accountability for outcomes.
* The 2021 Budget planning cycle has started, with calls for budgets from Committees. The Board is encouraged to submit budget requests. 

Detailed reports can be found at the end of this agenda. 

## Previous votes

## OLD BUSINESS

### Motion to formally adopt Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised 12th Edition

Motion: "Resolved, the Foundation is directed to create or update any necessary bylaw or policies that govern Board meetings and any associated informative documents to state that Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised (12th ed.) are adopted for OWASP Board Meetings and Special Meetings. Projects, Chapters, and Committees can adopt RONR (12th ed.) for their meetings if they so choose, but it is not required by the Foundation."

* [Discussion Link](https://groups.google.com/a/owasp.org/g/global-board/c/xi_9O0WEhTA/m/q2gtJMWuBwAJ)

The Board directs the Foundation to add a new clause to Section 3 of the OWASP Bylaws:

"Section 3.1x ADOPTION OF ROBERTS RULES OF ORDER

The rules contained in the current edition of Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised (12th ed.) shall govern the OWASP Foundation Board and special meetings in all cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with the bylaws, and any special rules of order the Board may adopt."

The Foundation is directed to add consistent language to all relevant Board governance policies and Board governance informational pages. 

Sponsor: Owen Pendlebury
Second: Sherif Mansour

### Motion to operationalize temporary infractions of Code of Conduct

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the Foundation shall draw up a policy to operationalize rapid, escalating, and time limited responses to continued breaches of the OWASP Code of Conduct by participants and members. If the behavior is continuous, unlawful, or egregious, the policy should refer to and rely upon the existing bylaw governing the Board's power to revoke membership.

The following should be added to the Code of Conduct policy to enable sanctions:

```
Sanctions

The Executive Director can suspend participation in OWASP for 30 days for 
perceived or actual breaches of the OWASP Code of Conduct or US law. Depending
on the severity of the breach, the member or participant can accept the 30-day
suspension, or in serious cases, the member or participant will be referred to
the Compliance Committee for a decision regarding their ongoing participation
or membership by the OWASP Board at the next available Board meeting. 

* For first time Code of Conduct breaches where no violation of US law has
occurred: The member or participant can agree to comply with a temporary 
suspension imposed by the Executive Director of all OWASP participation for 
no more than 30 days. Membership will not be extended to cover the suspension.

* For repeat or serious breaches of the Code of Conduct, or where a participant
has been charged with a crime, the Executive Director must suspend the member,
refer the matter to the Compliance Committee, who will make an independent
evaluation on if the Board should strip leadership, revoke participation, or
membership privileges. The period of suspension will remain in place until
after the Board votes on the matter.

If the Board decides to take no action, full participation can resume immediately. If the participant is a member, their membership will be extended by the period of the suspension served.

Transparency and Oversight

To provide transparency and oversight of sanctions, the Executive Director will
inform the Board privately of the actions being taken under these sanctions,
informing the Compliance Committee as required, and providing recommendations
from the Compliance Committee to the Board and scheduling a vote as necessary.
```

* [Discussion Link](https://groups.google.com/a/owasp.org/g/global-board/c/TBm1RhwAxaQ/m/dBOrsLWkCwAJ)

Sponsor: Grant Ongers
Second: Richard Greenberg

### Motion to approve a new Committee policy

**Background:** The Committees 2.0 policy doesn't give clear guidance on many topics, including formation, activity, expenses, programs, fidiciary duties, and has a lot of extraneous informational text in there that properly belongs in a Committee Handbook. This policy brings the formation into line with a standing committee documented in RONR 12th Edition 50:7, and makes sure committees are responsible for coming up with a program of works and delivering outcomes, and not just as an advisory board. 

* [Discussion Link]()

**Motion:** "It is resolved that to promote the creation of additional core committees to enumerate the powers devolved to Committees, with appropriate checks and balances to comply with legal, tax and other regulations and safeguards to protect the Foundation and Board, that the following Committee policy is approved. Existing Committees will transition to the governance model of this Committee policy. OWASP's bylaws should be amended to allow the devolution of certain Board responsibilities and activities to committees as follows:

Change from

SECTION 5.01 Committees

```Establishment. The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Directors in office, establish one or more Advisory Boards or Committees. Committees will be held to the core purpose and core values as outlined in Sections 1.02 and 1.03. Committees will be structured according to the guidelines in Policy and Procedure.```

to

SECTION 5.01 Committees

```Establishment. The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Directors in office, establish one or more Board sub-committees (e.g, fundraising, finance, audit, or executive), Advisory Boards, or Committees. These will be held to the core purpose and core values as outlined in Sections 1.02 and 1.03. Committees are formed and governed by the Committees Policy, and are limited the Charter's purpose and scope. As a Committee Charter might devolve powers currently held by the Board or the Foundation to the Committee, any such devolution to a Committee will require a 2/3rd majority vote.```

- [Revised Committee Policy](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XyjV9MTaW8IYo-E1PZxhfqXmxbhKMHbjxw2ofsPUf0k/edit) 

Sponsor: TBA
Second: TBA

## NEW BUSINESS

### Motion to adopt 2/3rd majority for bylaw and policy changes

**Background:** Our lawyers reviewed our bylaws, and noted that our simple majority vote is not the industry standard and is too low a bar for significant organizational change. They recommend the adoption of a notice period and 2/3rd majority of the Board for changes to OWASP bylaws and policy changes. Their advice agrees with Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised (12th ed.) section 57, which is used to draft the motion below: 

* [Discussion Link](https://groups.google.com/a/owasp.org/g/global-board/c/ZFfoY1ugvu0/m/QruNDpvLCQAJ)

**Motion:** "Resolved, the Board directs the Foundation to update section 10.01 of the OWASP bylaws to comply with RONR (12th ed.) Section 57:1, by adopting RONR (12th ed.) 56:67:

```
SECTION 10.01 Amendments

OWASP Bylaws and organizational policies may be amended at any regular meeting
of the OWASP Board by an affirmative two thirds vote, provided that the 
amendment has been submitted in writing at the previous regular meeting, or a 
public notice is given no later than 7 days prior to the meeting.

Amendments to the these bylaws and organizational policies should comply with
RONR 12th Edition 57:1-19.
```

Sponsor: TBA
Second: TBA

### Motion to approve reviewed policies

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the following six reviewed policies are approved. The Foundation shall upload the approved text within 30 days of this vote to the OWASP policy website:

* [Elections Policy]()
* [Events Policy]()
* [Expense Policy]()
* [Mailing List Policy]()
* [Membership Policy]()
* [Social Media Policy]()

Feedback for these policies has been published to the global-board list. 

Sponsor: TBA
Second: TBA

### Motion to adopt 2/3rd majority for Director and Officer removal

**Background:** Our lawyers reviewed our bylaws, and note that section 2.04 is unworkable, as it requires an unanimous vote, including potentially the subject of the removal. They recommend adopting the industry standard 2/3rd super majority vote for Director or Officer removal. This is detailed in RONR (12th ed.) 56:29-30.

* [Discussion Link](https://groups.google.com/a/owasp.org/g/global-board/c/9aJXAi6ci1Q/m/yZf9Q1zMCQAJ)

**Motion:** "Resolved, the OWASP Board directs the Foundation to update bylaws section 2.04 as follows:

```
SECTION 2.04 Removal

Any officer, contractor, member, or director may be removed by a two thirds 
vote of the Board of Directors whenever, in its judgment, the best interests 
of the Foundation will be served thereby, but such removal shall be without 
prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the person so removed. Election
or appointment of an officer, agent, or director shall not of itself create
contract rights, and such appointment shall be terminable at will.
```

Sponsor: Grant Ongers
Second: Vandana Verma

### Motion to comply with US Government sanctions

**Background:** Our lawyers reviewed the recent issue with leadership of a project after a member from a sanctioned country was accused of illegal activities, which led them to being listed in the FBI's Most Wanted list. The lawyers recommended the OWASP Foundation, as a United States 501 (c)(3) not for profit, has a duty to comply with US Government sanctions, which means severing relations with sanctioned countries and individuals. After an internal review, this will affect 9 members, 1 project, and 1 chapter. 

* [Discussion Link](https://groups.google.com/a/owasp.org/g/global-board/c/FkRn_KQ0vrI/m/tDXptFLLCQAJ)

**Motion:** "Resolved, to comply with US government sanctions, the OWASP Board directs the Foundation to revoke and refund membership dues to any sanctioned country members, disband any sanctioned country chapters, remove any sanctioned country project leadership, and communicate this decision with the community (and all affected participants). Lastly, the Board directs that the Foundation updates all relevant membership and participation policies to reject or prohibit sanctioned country involvement from October 20, 2020 onward until such time as sanctions are lifted." 

Sponsor: Sherif Mansour
Second: TBA


### Motion to grant complimentary Membership to active leaders

**Background:** At the special Board meeting held on September 12th, 2020, the Board had a lengthy discussion on granting complimentary Membership to active leaders. The Board decided to give complementary leadership to active leaders and clarify honorary membership criteria after some additional debate. The Foundation cannot operationalize comprehensive complimentary Membership without automation. 

**Conflict of Interest Disclosure:** As this Motion grants complimentary Membership to active leaders, to avoid conflicts of interest, Directors may not receive complimentary Membership during their term, and must maintain their paid Membership when it comes due. The effective date is such that it will not affect the current election, and thus Martin Knobloch is not conflicted. During the discussion, please discuss the perceived or actual conflicts of interest. 

* [Discussion Link](https://groups.google.com/a/owasp.org/g/global-board/c/_H4up1nbzjc/m/SAra8NSaCwAJ)

**Motion:** "Resolved, the Board directs the Foundation to provide automated complimentary Membership to the top 5 active leaders of chapters, projects, events, and committees, effective November 1st, 2020, and monthly after that. Honorary Membership will become an award made by the Board, and changed to be for five years in recognition of extraordinary service to the OWASP Community. Regional pricing will be made available to all classes of paid Membership.

The following bylaw amendment is required to support this change in membership model:

```

SECTION 4.01 Membership Classes

There shall be the following classes of OWASP members: Corporate, Individual, Complementary, Honorary, and Student. 

SECTION 4.02 Qualifications

Individual, Corporate, and Student Membership may be granted to any individual
or organization that supports the Foundation's mission and purpose, is in good 
standing subject to our Code of Ethics, and pays the dues as set by the Board 
of Directors. The Foundation may, at its discretion, offer monthly, annual,
two-year, and Lifetime memberships. Regional pricing is available to all 
paid membership classes.

Complimentary Membership may be offered on an opt-in and automated basis to 
the top 5 active leaders of any chapter, project, event, or committee that 
supports the Foundation's mission and purpose, and is in good standing subject
to our Code of Ethics. Complimentary Membership is valid for one year. 
Leaders do not need to accept any offer of complementary leadership.
Complementary members in good standing for 12 months may stand for the Board, 
but if elected, must maintain good standing with paid Membership. Directors
who are eligible through the above criteria must not accept Complimentary
Membership during their term and maintain good standing with paid Membership.

Honorary Membership is equivalent to Individual Membership and valid for five 
years. Honorary Membership shall be determined and approved solely by a majority
vote of the Board of Directors for long-standing and extraordinary services to 
the OWASP Community.

All membership classes are eligible to vote in elections.
```

* Sponsor: TBA
* Second: TBA


## COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### Discussion on trademark business (Mike McCamon)

TBA

## ADJOURNMENT

***

### Staff Reports

* Executive Director
* Finance Officer
* Chapters and Membership
* Events
* Operations 
* Projects and Technology
* Sponsorship
