---

layout: col-sidebar
title: September 2020 Videoconference
date: 2020-09-22

---


# {{ page.date }}

## Meeting Details
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2020&month=9&day=22&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=919&p3=78&p4=136&p5=137&p6=176&p7=179)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://zoom.us/j/675935446)

## Agenda

## CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Gary Robinson, Grant Ongers, Martin Knobloch, Owen Pendlebury, Richard Greenberg, Sherif Mansour, Vandana Verma Sehgal

Guests
Mike McCamon, Tom Pappas, Dawn Aitken, Emily Berman, Harold Blankenship, Lisa Jones, Sibah Poede, Kelly Santalucia
-->

## CHANGES TO THE AGENDA


## APPROVAL OF MINUTES

[Previous Meeting Minutes](/www-board/minutes/202008)

## REPORTS

### Organizational KPIs

- Membership (x from Last Month)
- Momentum: x visitors to website last month (x compared to 2019)
- Operations:
  - x% of Service Desk tickets closed within SLA (compare last month)
  - x% of Non-Funding tickets were closed within SLA (compare last month)
- Money: $x Operating, $x cash assets.

### Financial

```TBA by COB Thursday```

### Executive Director Report

This month has been extremely busy, more so than usual:

- The Global Board of Directors election is now underway. Candidates have now been announced, and we are expecting the Candidates to complete video responses to the communities questions.
- AppSec Virtual organizations is well underway, with many speakers having recorded their talks. We are awaiting two keynote speakers to contact us, which is disappointing, but we will continue to work with them, and prepare a Plan B in case of continued non-communication. We appreciate the event sponsors and Corporate Members who are supporting this event, as well as all training and paid attendees.
- Operating Plan 2021 is being finalized. A close to or actually final draft is attached for your reference
- A draft Events strategy is found below. We will not be in a position to choose an option until after AppSec Virtual has concluded and its profitability and impact on our budget is determined. 
- I met with the Board over two weekends on our first virtual face to face. The advice and direction obtained from these meetings has been invaluable.
- Policy Review Committee has addressed many comments and has finalized some of the policies, which should be addressed via the use of e-votes or a future Board meeting
- Due to continuous unresolvable issues with PayPal over the last many months,  hundreds of wasted staff hours, and several outstanding refunds and trainer payments being unable to be processed, we will be deprecating PayPal immediately, with a view to closing all PayPal accounts by the end of the financial year unless tax forms will only be available after the end of the financial year. We will be moving solely to ACH / batch / SWIFT payments, and Stripe. This will help us with financial controls, reduce costs, and prevent delayed payments or refunds to trainers and attendees.

I will prepare with Grant Ongers a revision to the finalized membership policy a revision to allow optional complementary membership for active leaders. After working with the staff, the earliest this could take place is November 1, 2020. Therefore a motion to move these changes will be due at the October board meeting. 

```TBA by COB Thursday```

## e-Votes and other votes held by the Board

Motion: "It is resolved that the action by the Executive Director, Andrew van der Stock, to temporarily suspend and refer an OWASP leader to the Compliance Committee for review is supported by the Board."

Note: this vote was held during the Board's September Face to Face strategy meeting on September 12, 2020. The following vote was minuted by Andrew van der Stock. A recording exists of this meeting in case of any disputes.

Sponsor: Grant Ongers
Second: Vandana Verma

Martin: Yes
Vandana: Yes
Richard: Yes
Grant: Yes
Gary: Yes
Owen: Yes
Sherif: Absent with apologies

Passes 6-0

## OLD BUSINESS

## NEW BUSINESS

### Motion to operationalize temporary infractions of the Code of Conduct

Motion: "It is resolved that the Foundation shall draw up a policy to operationalize rapid, escalating, and time limited responses to continued breaches of the OWASP Code of Conduct by participants and members. If the behavior is continuous, unlawful, or egregious, the policy should refer to and rely upon the existing bylaw governing the Board's power to revoke membership."

```TBA - link to draft policy changes```

Sponsor: TBA
Second: TBA

### Motion to approve a new Committee policy

Motion: "It is resolve to promote the creation of additional core committees to enumerate the powers devolved to Committees, with appropriate checks and balances to comply with legal, tax and other regulations and safeguards to protect the Foundation and Board, that the following Committee policy is approved. Existing Committees will transition to the governance model of this Committee policy.

- [Revised Committee Policy]() (TBA COB Thursday, Owen + AJV)

Sponsor: TBA
Second: TBA

### Motion to establish a Project Committee

Motion: "It is resolved that a Project Committee be established under the most recent approved Committee policy, with the Committee purpose to provide mentorship and guidance for all OWASP projects, promote project activity, evangelize OWASP projects publicly, and to advise the Board or Foundation on bylaw or policy changes.

- [Project Committee Purpose](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UIX7bAb6-Wa96cOMb_iaRaGlCZ5vrnqVu8Yv8mGhfKs/edit?usp=sharing)"

Sponsor: TBA
Second: TBA

### Motion to approve new Operation Plan

Motion: "It is resolved that the Board approves of the OWASP Foundation's 2021 Operation Plan, and directs the Foundation to publish the Plan to the owasp.org website and to start executing the Plan as soon as possible, reporting back at least quarterly on progress."

- [Draft Operating Plan 2021](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TJjbznAalh9Esbs26KGEzy42vjNM0pakLasFNLTPG-w/edit?usp=sharing)

Sponsor: TBA
Second: TBA

### Discussion on 2021 Events Strategy

The new events strategy proposes a full calendar of virtual events for the Foundation in 2021. There are two major options, which it is not possible to pick at this time until the financial performance of AppSec Virtual is understood. We will be bringing the Events strategy to a vote in November 2020.

- [Draft Events Strategy 2021]()

## COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

## ADJOURNMENT

Motion: "The next scheduled Board meeting will be held during AppSec Virtual on Tuesday October 20, 2020 at midday US EDT, one week earlier than normal to allow public participation. It is moved and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say 'aye'."

Sponsor: Owen Pendlebury
Second: TBA

## Additional reports

### Staff reports

#### Finance (Tom Pappas)

#### Events (Emily + Alonna)

#### Projects and Technology (Harold Blakenship)

#### Chapters and Membership (Lisa Jones)

Current Statistics on the number of chapters that have issues to be addressed as well as chapters that should be made in-active.

64 Chapter pages have been non responsive for 9 months to migrate/create chapter pages on new owasp.org website. Notifications sent via: Mailchimp, Meetup, Connector, leaders list, and owasp.org website.

- 36 Chapter pages need to remove the template from the index.md file. 
- 29 will need a second leader.

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1DPGiK0G6pXf9ObJAWW_YzHy7IhD7n8eOc5026hL4t3w/edit?usp=sharing

#### Operations (Dawn Aitken)

