---

layout: col-sidebar
title: March 2021 Videoconference
date: 2021-03-23

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 23 March 2021
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2020&month=11&day=24&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=919&p3=78&p4=136&p5=137&p6=176&p7=179)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://zoom.us/j/675935446)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Grant Ongers, Martin Knobloch, Owen Pendlebury, Sherif Mansour, Vandana Verma Sehgal, Joubin Jabbari, Bil Corry

Guests
Andrew van der Stock, Tom Pappas, Dawn Aitken, Harold Blankenship, Lisa Jones, Alonna Stock, Kelly Santalucia
-->

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes](/www-board/minutes/202102)
- [Special Meeting Minutes](/www-board/minutes/20210308)

### REPORTS

[Staff reports](#staff-reports), including [Executive Director](#executive-director-report) and [Finance](#finance) can be found after the agenda.

#### Organizational KPIs

```
KPI	            February        Delta
Members         
Visitors        
OSD SLA met     
NSFR SLA met    
YTD net income  
```

![KPI Summary](/www-board/attachments/2021MM-board-kpi-summary.png)

#### Finance Summary

- [MONTH PRIOR Financial Package](/www-board/attachments/2021MM-board-summary.pdf)
- [MONTH PRIOR Board Summary](/www-board/attachments/2021MM-board-summary.pdf)
- [MONTH PRIOR Balance Summary](/www-board/attachments/2021MM-balance-summary.pdf)

### Operating Plan Status

| Projects Delivered to date                           | Due in March                               | Due in April                                                                        |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Move physical events to 2022                         | STOK Lightning Event                       | Expenses policy                                                                     |
| Recharter Chapter committee                          | OWASP Training Event                       | Events policy                                                                       |
| Automate chapter announcement                        | 20th Anniversary Two year membership drive | Recognize regional event orgs as OWASP leaders and access to leader shared services |
| Establish COVID era activity requirements            | Awards & Scholarship Policy                | Events in a box (Events Handbook)                                                   |
| WIA to become WIA, Diversity and Inclusion committee | Grants Policy                              | Review, reform, and implement marketing strategy                                    |
| Secure Flag Member Benefit                           |                                            | New mission statement                                                               |
| COVID temporary restrictions                         |                                            | Establish Event committee                                                           |
| GAAP recognition of membership                       |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Qualified advice procedures                          |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Review accounts receivable                           |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Review, de-duplicate, and promote shared services    |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Review EU entity                                     |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Improve international payments                       |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Simplify payment mechanisms                          |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Regional pricing for all membership types            |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Reform Lifetime Honorary membership                  |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Event Sponsorship Prepayment Plan                    |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Devolve authority to Event Director                  |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Formalize student chapters & membership              |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Implement Google AdWords marketing                   |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Review Corporate Membership Tiers                    |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Implement Regional Corporate Membership Pricing      |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Implement Startup Corporate Membership Pricing       |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Implement monthly Corporate Membership billing       |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Restore Corporate Membership vote                    |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Implement Startup Corporate Membership Pricing       |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Establish a speaker's bureau                         |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Monthly update to slides by Chapter Committee        |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Ask Board to continue audit committee                |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Create partnership event MOU                         |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Review and revamp OWASP Connector                    |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Close all open job positions                         |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Implement 30 day payment terms                       |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Complementary membership for active leaders          |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Establish Project committee                          |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Establish Education committee                        |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Review Virtual Inc Marketing contracts               |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Committee reform                                     |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Revitalize "news" and site content                   |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Move memberships to Copper CRM                       |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Develop Regional X model                             |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Approve Global AppSec Australia                      |                                            |                                                                                     |
| Virtual events & Training approvals in 2021          |                                            |                                                                                     |


### e-Votes to read into minutes

#### Motion to approve the 2021 Budget

"Background: Each year, the Foundation sets a budget to match its operating plan and priorities. This year is slightly different, with a survival mode budget. This budget has the lowest expectation of income and expenses for many years, with the expectation that as the vaccination rollout proceeds, life can start to get back to normal, and we might be able to exceed this budget. If that doesn't happen, this budget has a very slim profit, and with careful stewardship of our funds throughout the year, there's every likelihood that we will not make a loss. The major risk is events: the previous events director did not prepare a formal budget, and many of the events had to change. Therefore, we envisage there might be some ad hoc requests for event budgets to allow events to go ahead where the Foundation thinks they will be profitable. The only planned events are LASCON and AppSec Australia, both regional AppSec Days events. Lastly, this budget assumes that there will be finance reform, and therefore makes allowances for limited awards & scholarships, grants, and expenses.
<br>
Update: The draft Budget was tabled in the February board meeting after concerns and discussions, and corrections were made in the intervening period with meetings between Kelly Santalucia, Tom Pappas, Grant Ongers, and Andrew van der Stock. This revised budget is conservative in nearly all estimates, with many opportunities to exceed but also risks where income may fall flat. It will be vital that expenses are carefully managed throughout the year. All Board members voted, and the majority selected this time slot by preference, with only one Board member voting "if need be". The vote will need to be a majority vote (4/7 votes) to pass."

- [Draft 2021 Budget](/www-board/attachments/202103-draft-budget-summary.xlsx)"

**Motion**: "Resolved, the 2021 OWASP Foundation budget is formally approved.  Grant Ongers motions, Vandana Verma seconds"

**Vote:**
- Martin Knobloch - Yes
- Grant Ongers - Yes
- Joubin Jabbari - Yes
- Owen Pendlebury - Yes
- Vandana Verma - Yes
- Sherif Mansour - Yes
- Bil Cory - Absent

**Passed:  6-0**

### Consent Package
The following Routine/Standard/None-contraversial changes are motioned for a vote without discussion:
https://github.com/OWASP/www-policy/pull/35/commits/89054afc2677aa31ed4bc063f245604d781197cf

### NEW BUSINESS


#### Motion to conduct an independent board evluation for the OWASP Foundation

**Background:** The OWASP Foundation has not had a recent, independent board evaluatiuon for sometime. This is standard practice for boards, and we do have as part of the services with our suppliers a board evulation service included in the existing contract with them (i.e. at no additional cost).

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the board instruct the foundation to reach out to our existing service provider (BoardSource) to conduct a board evulation for the OWASP Foundation"

- Sponsor: Sherif Mansour
- Second: Grant Ogners

#### Developer Outreach Motion (Vandana)
**Background:**
**Motion:** "
- Sponsor: Vandana Verma
- Second: Sherif Mansour

#### ADD Grants Policy
https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/grants
- Sponsor: Grant Ogners
- Second: Sherif Mansour

#### ADD Awards & Scholarship Policy
https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/awards-and-scholarships
- Sponsor: Vandana Verma
- Second: Grant Ogners

### DRAFT Templates
#### Motion to ....

**Background:** TBA

**Motion**: "Resolved, TBA."

- Sponsor: TBA
- Second: TBA

Vote: TBA once the vote has concluded

```
Chair:          TBA
Vice Chair:     TBA
Secretary:      TBA
Treasurer:      TBA
Director:       TBA
Director:       TBA
Director:       TBA
```

#### Motion to conduct an independent board evaluation for the OWASP Foundation

**Background:** The OWASP Foundation has not had a recent, independent board evaluation for sometime. This is standard practice for boards, and we do have as part of the services with our suppliers a board evulation service included in the existing contract with them (i.e. at no additional cost).
- Sponsor: Sherif Mansour
- Secnod: Grant Ongers

### Staff Reports

#### Executive Director

#### Finance

#### Chapters and Membership

#### Events and Corporate Support

#### Operations

#### Projects and Technology

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next gneeral Board meeting is on TBA, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.
- https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/2021MM.html

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Sherif Mansour
Second: TBA

***

