---

layout: col-sidebar
title: July 2021 Videoconference
date: 2021-07-27

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 27 July 2021
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2020&month=11&day=24&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=919&p3=78&p4=136&p5=137&p6=176&p7=179)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://zoom.us/j/675935446)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Grant Ongers, Martin Knobloch, Owen Pendlebury, Sherif Mansour, Vandana Verma Sehgal, Joubin Jabbari, Bil Corry

Guests
Andrew van der Stock, Tom Pappas, Dawn Aitken, Harold Blankenship, Lisa Jones, Alonna Stock, Kelly Santalucia
-->

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes](/www-board/minutes/202106) 

### REPORTS

[Staff reports](#staff-reports), including [Executive Director](#executive-director-report) and [Finance](#finance) can be found after the agenda.

#### Organizational KPIs

```
KPI	            July        Delta
Members         4447        390 
Visitors        
OSD SLA met     
NSFR SLA met    
YTD net income  
```

![KPI Summary](/www-board/attachments/2021MM-board-kpi-summary.png)

#### Milestones delivered in July

- Membership portal is now live
- Adsense grant configured and 3 campaigns set up (20th anniversary, training, OWASP)
- We Hack Purple Partnership & Member Benefit
- Black Hat Virtual Booth Partnership and member discount
- First completely new Employee Handbook since 2012
- Draft Projects policy ready for approval
- Draft Expenses policy ready for approval
- Draft Events policy ready for approval
- Revised Speaker Agreement to support draft Events policy
- Revised Trainer splits, to improve trainer splits per 2021 Operating Plan
- Revised Corporate Membership program ready
- Preparation for Corporate Membership drive (starts August 1 through September 24)
- July training

#### Milestones due in August

- Email clean up program due to be completed
- 2020 audited financials delivered for 990
- 2020 Annual Report completed for fundraising purposes
- Business Continuity Plan draft ready for Board review
- Corporate Sponsorship Drive Month 1
- Preparation for September Lifetime Membership drive
- Preparation for the election - announcements, ensuring memberships are accurate, etc
- Travel policy drafted and ready for community review

#### Delayed or Stalled Milestones

- Events Committee
- Mission Statement
- Bylaws review (postponed to 2022)

#### Finance Summary

- [June Financial Package (TBA)](/www-board/attachments/2021MM-board-summary.pdf)

### e-Votes to read into minutes

None since June Board meeting.

### OLD BUSINESS

#### Motion to approve the Events Committee

NB: this may need to be tabled until July pending a status update on Events Committee members.

**Background:** The Events Committee will assist leaders and participants to hold high quality local and regional activities and events. It will assist the Foundation with maintaining a program committee, and assist with sourcing and organizing volunteers and so on for global events. The Committee will also advise the Board on the Events and associated policies, along with maintaining [Events in a Box](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DzfE50R_xamKnvG1Jdav0HmBWFhpBIG7NuPRZnQ4He8/edit?usp=sharing), and improving virtual, local, and regional budget templates and processes. There are representatives from the Events Committee here today if you have any questions.

- [Events Committee Charter draft](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_2HiBuqh7ZmJn_Tn0WFmdm9A-JcIGbxjJfxEXPORPvc/edit?usp=sharing)

**Motion**: "Resolved, the Events Committee is approved with the above charter."

- Sponsor: Grant Ongers
- Second: Sherif Mansour

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Motion to approve Expenses Policy

**Background:** The revised Expenses policy is the penultimate part of finance reform started in the 2021 Operating Plan, with only the Travel Policy to come. There have been two sets of Town Halls to discuss with the community at large, and discussions with Project and Event leaders to garner stakeholder buyin. The new Expenses policy is fairly similar to both our previous Expenses policy in terms of permitted expenses, but operates in the same way as the COVID restrictions temporary expenses process. The goal is for expenses to become more petty cash level reimbursements for project, chapter, and budgeted event expenses, with a level of oversight and responsibility placed on the shoulders of those submitting the claims. This should reduce the friction betwen the community and the Foundation on "acceptable" expenses, whilst protecting the Foundation from many unreasonable expense claims.

- [Draft Expenses Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/expense-reimbursement)

**Motion**: "Resolved, the revised Expenses Policy is approved, effective July 27, 2021."

- Sponsor: TBA
- Second: TBA

#### Motion to approve Projects Policy

**Background:** This policy is modelled after the chapter policy, which was approved in January 2021. It documents the lifecycle of a project, and for the first time, how projects can exit OWASP if they so choose. This draft policy, in conjuction with the draft Expenses and recent Grants and Awards and Scholarships policies, replaces the old Project spending policy, which will be removed completely after this approval.

- [Draft Projects Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/projects)

**Motion**: "Resolved, the revised Projects Policy is approved, effective July 27, 2021."

- Sponsor: TBA
- Second: TBA

#### Motion to approve Events Policy

**Background:** The updated Events policy is part of Event reform that is necessary to allow all parts of OWASP - leaders, local and regional chapters, projects, and committees to run events under the same policy. This policy defines Event leaders as first class leaders of OWASP, with an owasp.org email and access to complimentary membership. It also defines the separate P&L nature of events, formalizing what has always been true, but never stated before. It also defines a seed budget, ($0 required during this approval) to allow bootstrapping of new events and a seed repayment schedule so that events can become self-sustaining and thus lead to new events being created. Lastly, it details how events can direct their portion of the net profits to our mission, and raises the net profit split from 40% to 80%. The new policy defines how events can formally raise exemption requests for a single event with the Board if they disagree with the policy, for the Board's consideration. It also defines a new event type, OWASPx, which will be built by the Foundation after approval to permit members and non-profits to establish OWASP branded events in return for a brand license fee with relevant usage and quality restrictions outlined in the OWASPx program and trademark license agreement.

- [Draft Events Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/events)

**Motion**: "Resolved, the revised Events Policy is approved, effective July 27, 2021."

- Sponsor: TBA
- Second: TBA

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next gneeral Board meeting is on August 24, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.
- https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202108.html

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Sherif Mansour
Second: TBA

***

### Staff Reports

#### Executive Director

#### Finance

#### Chapters and Membership

#### Events and Corporate Support

#### Operations

#### Projects and Technology

