---

layout: col-sidebar
title: February 2021 Videoconference
date: 2021-02-23

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: Februrary 23, 2021
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2020&month=11&day=24&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=919&p3=78&p4=136&p5=137&p6=176&p7=179)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://zoom.us/j/675935446)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Grant Ongers, Martin Knobloch, Owen Pendlebury, Sherif Mansour, Vandana Verma Sehgal, Joubin Jabbari, Bil Corry

Guests
Andrew van der Stock, Tom Pappas, Dawn Aitken, Emily Berman, Harold Blankenship, Lisa Jones, Alonna Stock, Kelly Santalucia
-->

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes](/www-board/minutes/202101)

### REPORTS

[Staff reports](#staff-reports), including [Executive Director](#executive-director-report) and [Finance](#finance) can be found after the agenda.

#### Organizational KPIs

```
KPI	            February        Delta
Members         
Visitors        
OSD SLA met     
NSFR SLA met    
YTD net income  
```

![KPI Summary](/www-board/attachments/YYYYMM-board-kpi-summary.png)

#### Finance Summary

- [February Financial Package](/www-board/attachments/YYYYMM-board-summary.pdf)
- [February Board Summary](/www-board/attachments/YYYYMM-board-summary.pdf)
- [February Balance Summary](/www-board/attachments/YYYYMM-balance-summary.pdf)

### e-Votes to read into minutes

#### Motion to TBA

**Background:**

- Sponsor: TBA
- Second: TBA

Vote: TBA once the vote has concluded

```
Chair:          TBA
Vice Chair:     TBA
Secretary:      TBA
Treasurer:      TBA
Director:       TBA
Director:       TBA
Director:       TBA
```

#### Motion to update links and fianncial packages in previously approved minutes

**Background:** A number of meetings were held early, and we did not receive any financial packages to review. I've discovered that at least one of the minutes is incorrectly linked. 

- [Pull Request](https://github.com/OWASP/www-board/pull/4)

Motion: "Resolved, that for the sake of financial transparency, the Foundation is permitted to alter the minutes from previous meetings to ensure the correct financials and recordings are included in each month, and to ensure all links are functional. Any altered minutes will be presented for review in the February 2020 general meeting."

- Sponsor: TBA
- Second: TBA

Vote: 
- [e-Vote to correct financials, links in all 2020 minutes](https://doodle.com/poll/mekz9axhbgwp3cpm)

```
Sherif Mansour:  Yes
Vandana Verma:   Yes
Bil Corry:       Yes
Grant Ongers:    Yes
Martin Knobloch: Yes
Owen Pendlebury: Yes
Joubin Jabbari:  Yes
```

**Motion passes**

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Motion to approve the updated Chapter Committee Policy

**Background** The Chapter policy has been completely re-written to:

- Document the current policies for the full lifecycle of a chapter for the first time, so chapters can be managed to policy, including how to create, maintain chapter leadership, revive inactive chapters, and finally decomission them
- Document the roles of the Chapter Committee and the Foundation
- Student chapters are defined for the first time, permitting chapters to exist with the assistance of at least one acadmic co-leader, and permitting multiple student chapters in a single city, which is not true of city chapters
- Regional chapters are also defined for the first time, but as "city" chapters until such time as regional chapter policy can be formalized. Defining regional chapters as city chapters allows existing active regional chapters to access expenses and other Foundation services within policy for the first time. No dormant or new regional chapters will be approved under this version of the policy. 
- Expunged all unique chapter policies, differences, references of outdated policies, procedures, or chapter handbook guidance (e.g. how to host a meeting, expenses, and travel policies are all removed), and references to outdated Board resolutions and so on. 
- Lastly, the chapter policy now contains a section on how sanctioned countries or sanctioned leaders are governed in case of sanctions by a country where an OWASP Foundation entity operates, which replaces ad hoc actions taken in the past. The goal is to provide consistency and certainty for members, projects, and chapters, whilst protecting the Foundation from regulatory or legal action, and to ensure that as soon as sanctions are lifted, policy allows the restoration of membership and chapters as permitted. 

A key focus is on serving the needs of our members and the wider community by ensuring that dormant or inactive chapters are revived rather than disbanded. 

- [Revised Chapter Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/chapters)
- [Revised Chapter Policy Consolidated Feedback](https://owasp.org/www-staff/files/2021-policy-review-feedback/Policy-Feedback-Chapters.pdf)

**Motion** "Resolved, the revised Chapter policy is approved, effective February 23, 2021."

- Sponsor: TBA
- Second: TBA

#### Motion to TBA

**Background:** TBA

**Motion**: "Resolved, TBA."

- Sponsor: TBA
- Second: TBA

Vote: TBA once the vote has concluded

```
Chair:          TBA
Vice Chair:     TBA
Secretary:      TBA
Treasurer:      TBA
Director:       TBA
Director:       TBA
Director:       TBA
```

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next gneeral Board meeting is on TBA, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.
- https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/2021MM.html

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Sherif Mansour
Second: TBA

***

### Staff Reports

#### Executive Director

#### Finance

#### Chapters and Membership

#### Events and Corporate Support

#### Operations

#### Projects and Technology

