---

layout: col-sidebar
title: December 2021 Videoconference
date: 2021-12-21

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 21 December 2021
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2020&month=11&day=24&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=919&p3=78&p4=136&p5=137&p6=176&p7=179)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/89069321672?pwd=M212NUhmV1RwY05mVlZDNCtpOEFuQT09)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Grant Ongers, Martin Knobloch, Owen Pendlebury, Sherif Mansour, Vandana Verma Sehgal, Joubin Jabbari, Bil Corry

Guests
Andrew van der Stock, Tom Pappas, Dawn Aitken, Harold Blankenship, Lisa Jones, Kelly Santalucia
-->

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes](/www-board/minutes/YYYYMM)

### REPORTS

[Staff reports](#staff-reports), including [Executive Director](#executive-director-report) and [Finance](#finance) can be found after the agenda.

#### Organizational KPIs


#### Finance Summary

- [November Financial Package](/www-board/attachments/202111-financial-package.xlsx)

### e-Votes to read into minutes

#### Motion to replace the Foundation credit cards

**Background:** Currently, the OWASP Foundation has a $10k credit limit with two card holders personally guaranteed by the OWASP Executive Director. As the world opens up, and travel resumes, and as some of the Foundation's monthly expenses rise, we regularly need to pay down the credit cards before the due date. Additionally, the activity is negatively affecting Andrew's credit score. A better solution is for the OWASP Foundation to apply in its own right to a financial institution for new cards.

- [eVote](https://doodle.com/poll/xxayc36yir98wgzb)

**Motion**: "Resolved, the OWASP Foundation Executive Director and CFO are authorized to establish Foundation secured corporate credit cards for staff expenses and travel, with a total limit of $30k USD, replacing the personal guarantee Amex credit cards in use by the ED and one staff member today."

- Sponsor: Grant Ongers
- Second: Sherif Mansour

```
Sherif Mansour:     YES
Vandana Verma:      YES
Grant Ongers:       YES
Bil Corry:          YES
Joubin Jabbari:     YES
Martin Knobloch:    YES
Owen Pendlebury:    No vote
```

Motion passes (6/0)

### NEW BUSINESS

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

#### OWASP Draft Budget 2022

A discussion with Tom Pappas on the draft budget for 2022. Narrative TBA

- [Draft budget sheet](TBA)

#### Regional Chapter Policy

I will invite the Chapter committee to give a briefing to the Board on an official regional chapter model. Formalizing regional chapters is important, so we can provide certainty to all existing regional chapters, allow new regional chapters, and use the updated policy to help create business requirements for the selection of a new association management platform. All policies will need to be updated to allow full self-service, as there's likely to be a lot of reorganization of existing chapters, and an influx of new regional chapters, which implies any policy or process that inserts manual steps needs to be changed to be more about execeptions or appeals.

**Background** Regional chapters have never existed in any OWASP policy or bylaws, and as such are a policy anomaly and should never have been approved or exist. However, they are some of the largest, most active, and oldest chapters, and beloved by their members for the most part. So we need a policy that meets OWASP community management objectives, such as "no chapter is the boss of any other chapter", "chapters can't stop other chapters from existing", meet chapter activity requirements, access to expenses and shared services, and how best for the different types of chapters to work together within a region. Additionally, as we don't have a policy, management of regional chapters varies dramatically all over the world. No two regional chapters are the same.

In the past, we have seen negative behavior with some using regional chapters for their resume or Linked In profile with no activity, or trying to dominate or lock out other chapters and chapter leaders by saying they are the leaders of the country or region.

We need a regional chapter policy that enshrines how they are established, maintained, and their geographic and policy boundaries to avoid negative outcomes, whilst documenting regional chapters for the first time. As the Foundation is writing our business requirements for a new association management system, regional chapters need to have a stable management model that is amenable to self-service and automation using the same AMS as city and student chapters. Without a policy, we cannot include regional chapter requirements in our selection, so this has become urgent to resolve.

The chapter committee was first asked to address the regional chapter problem in [September 2020](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FDVbggGL1wLCU97vToqEOkdDRfASt_L5UYcpYRLpTmE/edit#heading=h.w7uwrkjo48c2). They have consulted widely with the regional chapter community and have come up with a proposed model. From the proposed model, I have created two amendments, one that implements the model exactly, and one that is capable of being managed by many of the AMS's we have identified already.

- [Regional Chapters Policy Proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Fbeih53wYc80LnW2oD5HfnwHLCP5ENwzATu5XLvZSO8/edit)
- [Proposal choice 1 - as per proposal](TBA)
- [Proposal choice 2 - similar settings, but with an AMS in mind for all chapter types, including regional](TBA)

The Foundation wants to ensure that Committees and Foundation Staff are not involved in day-to-day operational measures, but dealing with leader service that is outside the norms, exceptions, and appeals. Manual operational requirements come with an SLA and reduce client satisfaction, as almost all changes currently take at least 72 hours to implement. Asking a volunteer-led committee to insert themselves into operational matters is not a good use of volunteer time. From the Foundation perspective, mannual processes do not improve the customer experience, adds delays, and is harmful to productivity, when it could be automated and self-service in most cases.

**The ask** After a briefing and discussion between the Chapter Committee, the ask is for the Board to pick a proposed chapter policy amendment branch to be run through the Community Review Process. A reviewed draft policy brought to a vote in the January 2022 Board meeting. Once approved, the revised Chapter policy will allow the business requirements for regional chapters to be included for our evaluations of a new AMS. We are not asking for a vote today; we just want rough consensus that one of the two policy choices can be presented to the community for their review.

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on TBA, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [January 2022](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202201.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Sherif Mansour
Second: TBA

***

### Staff Reports

#### Executive Director

#### Finance

#### Chapters and Membership

#### Events and Corporate Support

#### Operations

#### Projects and Technology

