---

layout: col-sidebar
title: August 2021 Videoconference
date: 2021-08-24

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 24 August 2021
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2020&month=11&day=24&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=16&p2=919&p3=78&p4=136&p5=137&p6=176&p7=179)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://zoom.us/j/675935446)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Grant Ongers, Martin Knobloch, Owen Pendlebury, Sherif Mansour, Vandana Verma Sehgal, Joubin Jabbari, Bil Corry

Guests
Andrew van der Stock, Tom Pappas, Dawn Aitken, Harold Blankenship, Lisa Jones, Alonna Stock, Kelly Santalucia
-->

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes](/www-board/minutes/YYYYMM)

### REPORTS

[Staff reports](#staff-reports), including [Executive Director](#executive-director-report) and [Finance](#finance) can be found after the agenda.

#### Organizational KPIs

```
KPI	            February        Delta
Members         
Visitors        
OSD SLA met     
NSFR SLA met    
YTD net income  
```

![KPI Summary](/www-board/attachments/2021MM-board-kpi-summary.png)

#### Finance Summary

- [MONTH PRIOR Financial Package](/www-board/attachments/2021MM-board-summary.pdf)
- [MONTH PRIOR Board Summary](/www-board/attachments/2021MM-board-summary.pdf)
- [MONTH PRIOR Balance Summary](/www-board/attachments/2021MM-balance-summary.pdf)

### e-Votes to read into minutes

#### Motion to TBA

**Background:** TBA

**Motion**: "Resolved, TBA."

- Sponsor: TBA
- Second: TBA

Vote: TBA once the vote has concluded

```
Chair:          TBA
Vice Chair:     TBA
Secretary:      TBA
Treasurer:      TBA
Director:       TBA
Director:       TBA
Director:       TBA
```

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Motion to approve Events Policy

**Background:** The updated Events policy is part of Event reform that is necessary to allow all parts of OWASP - leaders, local and regional chapters, projects, and committees to run events under the same policy. This policy defines Event leaders as first class leaders of OWASP, with an owasp.org email and access to complimentary membership. It also defines the separate P&L nature of events, formalizing what has always been true, but never stated before. It also defines a seed budget, ($0 required during this approval) to allow bootstrapping of new events and a seed repayment schedule so that events can become self-sustaining and thus lead to new events being created. Lastly, it details how events can direct their portion of the net profits to our mission, and raises the net profit split from 40% to 80%. The new policy defines how events can formally raise exemption requests for a single event with the Board if they disagree with the policy, for the Board's consideration. It also defines a new event type, OWASPx, which will be built by the Foundation after approval to permit members and non-profits to establish OWASP branded events in return for a brand license fee with relevant usage and quality restrictions outlined in the OWASPx program and trademark license agreement.

- [Draft Events Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/events)

**Motion**: "Resolved, the revised Events Policy is approved, effective July 27, 2021."

- Sponsor: TBA
- Second: TBA

#### Motion to approve Expenses Policy

**Background:** The revised Expenses policy is the penultimate part of finance reform started in the 2021 Operating Plan, with only the Travel Policy to come. There have been two sets of Town Halls to discuss with the community at large, and discussions with Project and Event leaders to garner stakeholder buyin. The new Expenses policy is fairly similar to both our previous Expenses policy in terms of permitted expenses, but operates in the same way as the COVID restrictions temporary expenses process. The goal is for expenses to become more petty cash level reimbursements for project, chapter, and budgeted event expenses, with a level of oversight and responsibility placed on the shoulders of those submitting the claims. This should reduce the friction betwen the community and the Foundation on "acceptable" expenses, whilst protecting the Foundation from many unreasonable expense claims.

- [Draft Expenses Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/expense-reimbursement)

**Motion**: "Resolved, the revised Expenses Policy is approved, effective July 27, 2021."

- Sponsor: TBA
- Second: TBA

#### Motion to TBA

**Background:** TBA

**Motion**: "Resolved, TBA."

- Sponsor: TBA
- Second: TBA

Vote: TBA once the vote has concluded

```
Chair:          TBA
Vice Chair:     TBA
Secretary:      TBA
Treasurer:      TBA
Director:       TBA
Director:       TBA
Director:       TBA
```

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next gneeral Board meeting is on TBA, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.
- https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/2021MM.html

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Sherif Mansour
Second: TBA

***

### Staff Reports

#### Executive Director

#### Finance

#### Chapters and Membership

#### Events and Corporate Support

#### Operations

#### Projects and Technology

