---

layout: col-sidebar
title: July 2022 Videoconference
date: 2022-07-26

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 26 July 2022
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2022&month=7&day=26&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=16&p3=110&p4=197&p5=217&p6=136&p7=179&p8=438)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/83392905205?pwd=bXpFOG1oSEMwUTJBTjlQMzVsT1FQdz09)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Vandana Verma Sehgal, Grant Ongers, Avi Douglen, Glenn ten Cate, Martin Knobloch, Joubin Jabbari, Bil Corry.

Guests
Andrew van der Stock, Tom Pappas, Dawn Aitken, Harold Blankenship, Lisa Jones, Kelly Santalucia, Lauren Thomas
-->

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - June 2022](/www-board/meetings-historical/202206)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [Executive Director Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1dwBLhSDu3dmcbsZJFW32GWqph9bSvG2SH_7PGfX0cKo/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance Narrative](/www-board/attachments/202206-finance-narrative.docx)
- [Finance Package](/www-board/attachments/202206-finance-package.xlsx)

### REPORTS

[Staff reports](#staff-reports)

- [Executive Director](#executive-director)
- [Finance](#finance)
- [Chapters and Membership](#chapters-and-membership)
- [Events and Corporate Support](#events-and-corporate-support)
- [Operations](#operations)
- [Projects and Technology](#projects-and-technology)

### e-Votes and Special Meeting Motions to read into minutes

### NEW BUSINESS

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

#### Fundraising Proposal

OWASP is in the very nascent stage of fundraising. The last time we attempted to obtain a grant, an offer was made to buy us, which shows how unprepared we are for serious fundraising efforts.

We intend to engage with Teresa Huff, who is a professional grant writer and non-profit fundraising consultant to develop a road map to operationalize grant writing and fundraising at OWASP. Teresa will present her grant roadmap program and take questions from the Board.

- [Grant Roadmap](https://teresahuff.com/grantroadmap/)

#### Maribor Discussion

The Maribor, Slovenia chapter has incorporated an association. This is a second EU entity, and it was not approved by the Board. Let's have a discussion on the way forward.

#### Discussion on Developer Conferences

Outreach committee to present Developer Conference proposal.

#### Discussion on Project Summit

Harold Blankenship to present an update on the AppSec San Francisco Project Summit.

#### Executive Session about potential Partnership

There will be an adjournment into an executive session to discuss a potential partnership with another non-profit. This may lead to a vote, so quorum should be maintained.


### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on August 23, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [August 2022](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202208.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA

---

### Staff Reports

#### Executive Director

See slides

#### Finance

See narrative and financial package.
