---

layout: col-sidebar
title: December 2020 Videoconference
date: 2022-12-20

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 20 December 2022 (Note: one week early!)
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2022&month=12&day=20&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=16&p3=110&p4=197&p5=217&p6=136&p7=179&p8=438)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/83392905205?pwd=bXpFOG1oSEMwUTJBTjlQMzVsT1FQdz09)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Vandana Verma Sehgal, Grant Ongers, Avi Douglen, Glenn ten Cate, Martin Knobloch, Joubin Jabbari, Bil Corry.

Guests
Andrew van der Stock, Tom Pappas, Dawn Aitken, Harold Blankenship, Lisa Jones, Kelly Santalucia, Lauren Thomas
-->

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - November 2022](/www-board/minutes/202211)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Board Public Actions kanban](https://github.com/OWASP/www-board/projects/1)
- [Executive Director Board Summary](TBA)
- [Finance Board Summary](TBA)

### REPORTS

[Staff reports](#staff-reports)

- [Executive Director](#executive-director)
- [Finance](#finance)

#### Pre-reading material

- TBA
- TBA
- TBA

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Motion to amend the Expenses Policy to allow Economy Plus travel for greater than 8 hours

Background: The current Expenses policy has numerous exceptions for flight time over 8 hours. This should be formalized to allow approved travelers to book Economy Plus for flights over 8 hours.

Motion: "Resolved, the Board amends the Expenses Policy to allow Economy Plus travel for a total flight time greater than 8 hours, or a single step upgrade from economy if Economy Plus is not available."

Sponsor: Grant Ongers
Second: Avi Douglen

#### Motion to approve Diversity and Inclusion Event Scholarships

Background: Currently, there is no travel or event scholarship budget for OWASP events. This motion would allocate $10k per Global Event for Diversity and Inclusion Scholarships in 2023 for OWASP Events.

Motion: "Resolved, the Board allocates $10k per Global Event for Diversity and Inclusion Scholarships in 2023 for OWASP Events."

- Sponsor: Avi Douglen
- Second: Vandana Verma Sehgal

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

#### Discussion on 2023 Budgeting and Planning

Glenn ten Cate will lead a discussion on the 2023 budgeting and planning process, including finalizing the 2023 budget in early 2023 with the new Board.

#### Discussion on staggered Board terms

Avi Douglen will lead a discussion on the staggered Board terms, including the pros and cons of having staggered terms, such as shortening a future Board to allow new Boards time to determine strategy before approving a budget. The current situation means that the old Board approves the budget for the new Board, which may not be the best approach.

#### Holidays Social Event

If time permits, an end of year holiday social event will be held after the meeting adjourns.

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on 24 January 2023, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [January 2023](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202301.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA

***

### Staff Reports

#### Executive Director

TBA

#### Finance

TBA

#### Chapters and Membership

TBA

#### Events and Corporate Support

TBA

#### Operations

TBA

#### Projects and Technology

TBA
