---

layout: col-sidebar
title: January 2022 Videoconference
date: 2022-01-25

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 25 January 2022
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2022&month=1&day=25&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=16&p3=110&p4=197&p5=217&p6=136&p7=179&p8=438)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/83392905205?pwd=bXpFOG1oSEMwUTJBTjlQMzVsT1FQdz09)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Sherif Mansour (outgoing chair), Grant Ongers, Martin Knobloch, Vandana Verma Sehgal, Joubin Jabbari, Bil Corry, Glenn ten Cate, Avi Douglen

Guests
Andrew van der Stock, Tom Pappas, Dawn Aitken, Harold Blankenship, Lisa Jones, Kelly Santalucia, Lauren Thomas
-->

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - December 2021](/www-board/minutes/202112)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Board Public Actions kanban](https://github.com/OWASP/www-board/projects/1)
- [Executive Director Board Summary](TBA)
- [Finance Board Summary](TBA)
- [Draft 2022 Budget](TBA)

### Election of 2022 Officers

The first official business at the first general public meeting must be to elect Board officers. The outgoing officers are the *pro tem* officers until their incoming officers are elected. Board reports should be conducted after the election of new officers.

#### Outgoing Chair conducts the election of the incoming Chair

RONR 12th ed. 46:47 Sherif Mansour, as the outgoing 2021 Chair, will conduct the nomination, election, and confirmation of the incoming Chair. Once the new Chair is confirmed, the new Chair will immediately become the new OWASP Chair, and conduct the rest of the meeting.

#### Board Officer duties

The incoming Board should be aware of the duties of each of the officers when electing or confirming a Director as an officer of the Board.

- **Chair** - Serve as the principal executive officer of the Foundation, including fiduciary responsibilities, leaders and direction, and organizational responsibilities (see link for all details)
- **Vice Chair** - performs Chair responsibilities when the chair is not available
- **Secretary** - "maintains records of the board and ensures effective management of organization’s records, manages minutes of board meetings, ensures minutes are distributed shortly after each meeting, is sufficiently familiar with legal documents (articles, by­laws, IRS letters, etc.) to note applicability during meetings [...]"
- **Treasurer** - "manages finances of the organization, administers fiscal matters of the organization, provides annual budget to the board for member’s approval, ensures development and board review of financial policies and procedures."

- [OWASP Bylaws - Authority and duties of officers](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#article-ii---authority-and-duties-of-officers)

#### Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised Election Procedure

This is the first year that the Board officers will be confirmed or elected following the RONR rules of procedure. The process for each position is as follows:

Nominations should be taken from the floor (RONR 12th ed. 46:6), speak if desired (46:27-29), if more than one nominee, an election held via ballot of those present (46:30). Finally, the sole or majority nominee shall be voted by the incoming Board to confirm the appointment (46:35).

RONR Background information

- RONR 12th ed. 46:19 "For the 2022 <position>, a nomination has been received for <>. Are there any other nominations?"
- RONR 12th ed. 46:20 "Are there any other nominations for <position>? <pause> Without objection, nominations are now closed."
- RONR 12th ed. 46:27-29 Optional debate if desired by nominees
- RONR 12th ed. 46:30 Election. If more than one nominee, the Chair shall ask for votes to be cast for each of the nominees. The nominee with a majority of votes will be the new Chair.
- RONR 12th ed. 46:50 If there is no votes, no majority, or a tie, the incoming 2022 Board shall discuss a motion to determine the method of further balloting for this position. This could include following 46:31, which requires re-voting until a majority is obtained for a nominee, or allowing the outgoing Chair a vote to break a tie, or some other method.
RONR 12th ed. 46:35 A majority or sole nominee needs an affirmative vote from the incoming board to confirm the nomination or results of the ballot.

#### Election of 2022 Chair

**Background** RONR 12th ed. 46:47 Sherif Mansour, as the outgoing 2021 Chair, will conduct this ballot. Once the new Chair is elected, the new Chair will then become the new OWASP Chair, and conduct the rest of the meeting.

Motion: "Resolved, <nominee> is elected Chair."

**Sponsor:** Sherif Mansour, 2021 Chair
**Second:** TBA

#### Election of 2022 Vice Chair

**Background** RONR 12th ed. 46:47 The newly affirmed Chair will be the sponsor of this motion, and conduct the meeting from this point onwards and conduct all following ballots. The new chair should follow the above procedure to nominate and confirm the Vice Chair.

Motion: "Resolved, <nominee> is elected Vice Chair."

**Sponsor:** TBA, 2022 Chair
**Second:** TBA

#### Election of 2022 Secretary

**Background** The Chair should follow the above procedure to nominate and confirm the 2022 Secretary.

Motion: "Resolved, <nominee> is elected Secretary."

**Sponsor:** TBA, 2022 Chair
**Second:** TBA

#### Election of 2022 Treasurer

**Background** The new Chair should follow the above procedure to nominate and confirm the 2022 Treasurer.

Motion: "Resolved, <nominee> is elected Treasurer."

**Sponsor:** TBA, 2022 Chair
**Second:** TBA

### REPORTS

[Staff reports](#staff-reports)

- [Executive Director](#executive-director)
- [Finance](#finance)
- [Chapters and Membership](#chapters-and-membership)
- [Events and Corporate Support](#events-and-corporate-support)
- [Operations](#operations)
- [Projects and Technology](#projects-and-technology)

### Concluded eVotes to be read into the minutes

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Motion to approve the 2022 Budget

**Background** Each year, the Foundation sets a budget to match its operating plan and priorities. The 2022 budget is conservative in both income and expenses, as demonstrated in 2020-2021. The budget assumes recovery from the pandemic will continue to be slow and highly variable. Our main budget priorities are to reform customer experience and reduce operational costs by platform simplification, market and promote OWASP and projects more generally, improve our outreach to developers and executives, and establish sponsored scholarships to OWASP events for the Diversity, Inclusion, and Women in AppSec Committee.

The most significant financial risk is AppSec Global San Francisco. The event requires 500 attendees to be profitable. Although this is likely considering its location, sponsors have been wary of sponsoring or attending in person events with standard large event COVID controls and entrance requirements. The Board should consider mitigating strategies, such as the Linux Foundation's successful strategy of requiring fully vaccinated participation to encourage both sponsors and registrants to feel safe to sponsor, register, and attend such a large event. It is likely that this event will only be attended by US residents due to the uncertain travel situation.

- [Draft 2022 Budget](TBA)

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the draft OWASP 2022 Operating Budget is approved."

**Sponsor:** TBA
**Second:** TBA

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on February 22 2022, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [February 2022](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202202.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA

***

### Staff Reports

#### Executive Director

TBA

#### Finance

TBA

#### Chapters and Membership

TBA

#### Events and Corporate Support

TBA

#### Operations

TBA

#### Projects and Technology

TBA
