---

layout: col-sidebar
title: March 2022 Videoconference
date: 2022-03-22

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 22 March 2022
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2022&month=3&day=22&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=16&p3=110&p4=197&p5=217&p6=136&p7=179&p8=438)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/83392905205?pwd=bXpFOG1oSEMwUTJBTjlQMzVsT1FQdz09)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Vandana Verma Sehgal, Grant Ongers, Avi Douglen, Glenn ten Cate, Martin Knobloch, Joubin Jabbari, Bil Corry.

Guests
Andrew van der Stock, Tom Pappas, Dawn Aitken, Harold Blankenship, Lisa Jones, Kelly Santalucia, Lauren Thomas
-->

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - February 2022](/www-board/minutes/202202)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Board Public Actions kanban](https://github.com/OWASP/www-board/projects/1)
- [Executive Director Board Summary](TBA)
- [Finance Board Summary](TBA)

### REPORTS

[Staff reports](#staff-reports)

- [Executive Director](#executive-director)
- [Finance](#finance)
- [Chapters and Membership](#chapters-and-membership)
- [Events and Corporate Support](#events-and-corporate-support)
- [Operations](#operations)
- [Projects and Technology](#projects-and-technology)

#### Pre-reading material

- [Board Reports Summary](TBA)
- [Finance Narrative](TBA)
- [Financial package](TBA)

### e-Votes and Special Meeting Motions to read into minutes

#### Motion to approve two membership fundraisers

**Background** In 2021, there were three successful membership drives, which drove our membership to the highest ever. As the Board sets membership fees, the Executive Director sought a change to permit up to two membership drives per year.

Motion: "Resolved, that the OWASP Executive Director is authorised by the Board to run membership drives offering discounted memberships, limiting those to no more than two discounted membership drives a year, with no more than 20% off on any one of them."

**Sponsor:** Avi Douglen
**Second:** Joubin Jabbari

```
Grant Ongers    Yay
Joubin Jabbari  Yay
Martin Knobloch Yay
Vandana Verma   Yay
Avi Douglen     Yay
```

Motion passes 5-0

#### Motion to approve Ukraine measures

**Background** Fees are set by the Board. A new policy is likely needed to address this issue in a non-political manner, but in the meantime, the Executive Director asked to have fee relief approved on a temporary basis.

Motion: "Resolved, that for existing and new OWASP Members with a Ukrainian address on file, renewal fees are waived until further notice."

**Sponsor:** Grant Ongers
**Second:** Martin Knobloch

```
Grant Ongers    Yay
Joubin Jabbari  Yay
Glenn ten Cate  Ney
Martin Knobloch Yay
Vandana Verma   Yay
Avi Douglen     Yay
```

Motion passes 5/1

### NEW BUSINESS

No new business.

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

#### TBA Committee Briefing

Placeholder if a committee can present a briefing to the Board.

#### TBA Committee Briefing

Placeholder if a committee can present a briefing to the Board.

#### Discussion on Leaders as Members

The new association management system requires leaders to be members. There is spirited discussion within the Board and the community on how best to achieve this. Let's work out a workable approach to discuss with the Leaders at the Leader Town Halls. Please attend as many of these town halls as you can. We will be recording the sessions if you can't make one or more of them. The recordings will be available to the community afterwards.

- [Leader Town Hall March 31 0700 US EDT](https://www.meetup.com/owaspfoundation/events/284630976)
- [Leader Town Hall March 31 1300 US EDT](https://www.meetup.com/owaspfoundation/events/284631152/)
- [Leader Town Hall March 31 2030 US EDT](https://www.meetup.com/owaspfoundation/events/284631193)

#### Discussion on Trademark Strategy

The current strategy is expensive, not really meeting its goals of bringing in income, and difficult and expensive to enforce. Corporate Members have shown little interest in taking up trademark licenses, despite being included in most tiers. We need a new strategy, one that is simpler, one that is attractive to the corporate community, and one that earns income in its own right, rather than being a burden.

Andrew van der Stock will take the Board through the current and proposed strategy, but as fees are set by the Board, any changes would require a vote at some point in the future.

- [Trademark strategy slides](TBA)

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on April 26, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [April 2022](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202204.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA

***

### Staff Reports

#### Executive Director

TBA

#### Finance

TBA

#### Chapters and Membership

TBA

#### Events and Corporate Support

TBA

#### Operations

TBA

#### Projects and Technology

TBA
