---

layout: col-sidebar
title: August 2022 Videoconference
date: 2022-08-23

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 23 August 2022
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2022&month=8&day=23&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=16&p3=110&p4=197&p5=217&p6=136&p7=179&p8=438)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/83392905205?pwd=bXpFOG1oSEMwUTJBTjlQMzVsT1FQdz09)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Vandana Verma Sehgal, Grant Ongers, Avi Douglen, Glenn ten Cate, Martin Knobloch, Joubin Jabbari, Bil Corry.

Guests
Andrew van der Stock, Tom Pappas, Dawn Aitken, Harold Blankenship, Lisa Jones, Kelly Santalucia, Lauren Thomas
-->

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - July 2022](/www-board/meetings-historical/202207)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Board Public Actions kanban](https://github.com/OWASP/www-board/projects/1)
- [Executive Director Board Summary](TBA)
- [Finance Board Summary](TBA)

### REPORTS

[Staff reports](#staff-reports)

- [Executive Director](#executive-director)
- [Finance](#finance)
- [Chapters and Membership](#chapters-and-membership)
- [Events and Corporate Support](#events-and-corporate-support)
- [Operations](#operations)
- [Projects and Technology](#projects-and-technology)

#### Pre-reading material

- TBA
- TBA
- TBA

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Motion to make AppSec SF a masked event

**Background** 

Motion: "Resolved, AppSec San Francisco is a masked event."

- Sponsor: Avi Douglen
- Second: Grant Ongers

#### Motion to start the ratification of new bylaws

**Background** The new bylaws have been returned from legal review. It is now time to socialize these with the membership, and pursue the various methods of ratification proposed by our lawyers:

- Ratification by all current and previous Directors
- Ratification by a majority of current Members (3000)
- Ratification by petitioning the Delaware Court of Chancery

Motion: "Resolved, the OWASP Foundation shall work through the ratification of the new bylaws in order suggested by OWASP's legal counsel."

**Sponsor:** Grant Ongers
**Second:** Avi Douglen

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

#### Discussion on increasing dues

**Background** OWASP has not had a price rise since 2008, when fees were reduced from \$120 per year to the current \$50. The price increase is intended to support the ongoing development of the OWASP Foundation, our mission, and support projects, chapters, members and events. When inflation is taken into account, \$50 2008 dollars is \$70 in 2022 dollars, so this increase in dues does not catch up with inflation.

Student fees are currently \$20 or \$8 per year. To offset individual membership due increases, the proposal is to make student membership free to invest in our future mission, and retain regional membership dues at current prices.

We propose to change dues per the following table:

| Description | Current | New |
|---------|-----| ---- |
| Individual | $50 | $60 |
| Two Year  | $95 | $110 |
| Lifetime | $500 | $550 |
| Regional | $20 | No change |
| Regional Two Year | $35 | No change |
| Regional Lifetime | $200 | No change |
| Student | $20 | $0 |
| Regional Student | $8 | $0 |

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on Wednesday, September 28, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

NB: This is the fourth **Wednesday**, not Tuesday, due to Rosh Hashana.

- [September 2022](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202209.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA

***

### Staff Reports

#### Executive Director

TBA

#### Finance

TBA

#### Chapters and Membership

TBA

#### Events and Corporate Support

TBA

#### Operations

TBA

#### Projects and Technology

TBA
