---

layout: col-sidebar
title: January 2023 Videoconference
date: 2023-01-24

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 24 January 2023
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2023&month=1&day=24&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=16&p3=110&p4=197&p5=217&p6=136&p7=179&p8=438)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/83392905205?pwd=bXpFOG1oSEMwUTJBTjlQMzVsT1FQdz09)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Vandana Verma Sehgal, Grant Ongers, Avi Douglen, Glenn ten Cate, Mark Curphey, Matt Tesauro, Bil Corry.

Guests
Andrew van der Stock, Shelby Graham, Dawn Aitken, Harold Blankenship, Lisa Jones, Kelly Santalucia, Lauren Thomas
-->

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - December 2022](/www-board/meetings-historical/2022/202212)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL AND REPORTS

- [Executive Director Board Summary](TBA)
- [Finance Board Narrative](TBA)
- [Finance Board Package](TBA)

### NEW BUSINESS

#### ELECTION OF 2023 OFFICERS

**Background** The first official business at the first general public meeting must be to elect Board officers. The outgoing officers are the *pro tem* officers until their incoming officers are elected. The process is defined by RONR 12th ed. 46:31 (2) - nominations from the floor, followed by a ballot to obtain a majority candidate who is confirmed to office via a majority vote of the Board.

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the Board elects TBA as Chair."

Discussion: The Chair will call for nominations from the floor. If multiple nominations are received, the nominee with a majority of nominations will proceed to the motion. If there is only one nomination, the Chair will immediately call for a vote on the motion. If there is a tie, the Chair will cast the deciding vote. The incoming officer takes their office as soon as the motion is passed.

*NB: Outgoing Chair conducts the election of the incoming Chair*

RONR 12th ed. 46:47 Vandana Verma, as the 2022 Chair, will open the meeting and conduct the election of the 2023 Chair. Once the new Chair is confirmed, the new Chair will immediately become the new OWASP Chair, and conduct the rest of the meeting, including the election of the other officers.

**Sponsor:** Vandana Verma Sehgal
**Second:** Grant Ongers

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the Board elects TBA as Vice Chair."

Discussion: Same as before.

**Sponsor:** TBA
**Second:** TBA

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the Board elects TBA as Secretary."

Discussion: Same as before.

**Sponsor:** TBA
**Second:** TBA

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the Board elects TBA as Treasurer."

Discussion: Same as before.

**Sponsor:** TBA
**Second:** TBA

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on 23 February 2023, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [February 2023](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202302)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA

***

### Staff Reports

#### Executive Director

TBA

#### Finance

TBA


