---

layout: col-sidebar
title: March 2023 Videoconference
date: 2023-03-28

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 28 March 2023
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1600 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2023&month=03&day=28&hour=16&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=16&p3=110&p4=197&p5=217&p6=136&p7=179&p8=438)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/87347729318?pwd=dVgvdFdIK01FUmdOQm90cEc0c2FGUT09)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Vandana Verma Sehgal, Grant Ongers, Avi Douglen, Glenn ten Cate, Matt Tesauro, Bil Corry.

Guests
Andrew van der Stock, Shelby Graham, Dawn Aitken, Harold Blankenship, Lisa Jones, Kelly Santalucia, Lauren Thomas
-->

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

NB: Depending on how attendance is counted, one or more Board members may need a vote of confidence. Until all minutes are approved and a decision is made on what counts towards attendance, no vote of confidence can be held as it is unclear what would count towards attendance.

January's minutes will need to be re-approved as a missing vote was included on moving the April and December Board meetings.

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - January 2023](/www-board/meetings-historical/202301)

The following minutes will need to be reviewed by the Secretary, and an e-vote held:

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - February 28, 2023](/www-board/meetings-historical/202302)
- [Previous Meeting Minutes - March 16, 2023](/www-board/meetings-historical/202303.16)
- [Previous Meeting Minutes - March 17, 2023](/www-board/meetings-historical/202303.17)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1qj7P9mE385PHktEhvIMH2k9wZPqqXJnOa6w0FwFHy6I/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance Board Narrative](/www-board/attachments/202302-finance-narrative.docx)
- [Finance Board Package](/www-board/attachments/202302-finance-package.xlsx)
- [Draft 2023 Budget](/www-board/attachments/202303-fy23-draft-budget.xlsx)

### STAFF REPORTS

- Executive Director - See Board Summary
- Finance - See Narrative and Package above
- Operations - see Board Summary
- Chapters and Membership - see Board Summary
- Projects and Technology - see Board Summary
- Events and Corporate Support - see Board Summary

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Projects Discussion

**Background** The wishes to discuss progress on the strategic plan, and our response to the Open Letter. Additionally, the Board wishes to find out the results of the project audit.

The projects committee have reached out to a number of the projects and have collected [this](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16zSwkaRiR2yf8EAxyZeQKQjS5ZMRhAM9Tdi8jYYYVa0/edit).

#### Outreach Charter Discussion

**Background** The Outreach Committee has a draft charter. The Board has some concerns, and wishes to improve the charter for an April vote.

#### Motion to approve the 2023 Budget

**Background** The OWASP Foundation cannot spend on programs other than BAU until the budget is approved. The Board must approve the budget each year. The budget is based on the previous year's actual expenses and projected growth. The budget is a living document and can be changed at any time by the Board.

- [Draft 2023 Budget](/www-board/attachments/202303-fy23-draft-budget.xlsx)

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the 2023 Budget is approved."

**Sponsor:** Glenn ten Cate
**Second:** Bil Corry

#### Discussion on process to replace Director vacancies

**Background**  The Board needs to discuss the process for filling Director vacancies.

Options include potentially someone:
- from the previous election's runners-up;
- selected by the board for advisory purposes;
- to specifically champion the projects needs; or
- who might bring fresh perspectives

#### Finding a time for the next strategy meeting

**Background** The Board needs to resume discussing the 2023 Strategic Plan. Let's find a suitable time.

#### Discussion on replacing Mark Curphey

**Background** In Executive Session. The Board needs to fill the vacancy created by Mark Curphey's resignation.

#### Discussion of recent staffing changes

**Background** In Executive Session. The Board wishes to have an update on the recent staffing changes.

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on 18 April 2023, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [April 2023](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202304.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA

***
