---

layout: col-sidebar
title: December 2023 Videoconference
date: 2023-12-19

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 19 December 2023
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2023&month=12&day=19&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=16&p3=110&p4=197&p5=217&p6=136&p7=179&p8=438)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/87347729318?pwd=dVgvdFdIK01FUmdOQm90cEc0c2FGUT09)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Vandana Verma Sehgal, Grant Ongers, Avi Douglen, Matt Tesauro, Bil Corry, and Ricardo Griffith.

Guests
Andrew van der Stock, Dawn Aitken, Harold Blankenship, Kelly Santalucia, Lauren Thomas, (optional) Chris Barbeau, Kevin Johnson, Sam Stepanyan, and Steve Springett.
-->

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - November 2023](/www-board/meetings-historical/202311)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1uZtmGVeNuI7eB6OLC56GkAf8fpUwLcTWfqfvtSL1P6g/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance Board Financial Management Report](/www-board/attachments/202311-management-report.pdf)
- [Finance Board Events P&L](/www-board/attachments/202311-events-pnl.xlsx)
- [2022 IRS 990t](/assets/financial-taxreturns/2022_Form_990.pdf)

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Board Summit 2024

**Background** Let's discuss the intent of the Board Summit to be held in the New York region of the United States in March 2024.

#### Discussion on strengthening the Board's independence

**Background** Let's discuss ways to both strengthen the independence of the Board (e.g. from a single company that tries to get undue influence on the board, or other outside interests), as well as push for more diversity and global representation on the board.

- [Draft discussion paper](TBA)

**Sponsor:** Avi Douglen
**Second:** Grant Ongers

#### 2023 End of Year Celebration

A chance for the Board to get together and celebrate our successes in 2023.

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on January 23, 2024, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [January 2024](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202401)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA
