---

layout: col-sidebar
title: February 2023 Strategy Meeting - Dublin
date: 2023-02-14

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 14 February 2023
- Time: 3am US Eastern, UTC 0800 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2023&month=02&day=14&hour=8&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=16&p3=110&p4=197&p5=217&p6=136&p7=179&p8=438)
- Location: Global AppSec Dublin 2023
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/81029028601?pwd=dmxvNXkvZWFhQ3NxQTR4WGIrbnZWQT09)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Vandana Verma Sehgal, Grant Ongers, Avi Douglen, Glenn ten Cate, Mark Curphey, Matt Tesauro, Bil Corry.

Guests
Andrew van der Stock
-->

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibite

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Motion to make all board meetings available to the public:

**Background:** In the spirit of transparency the OWASP board would like to make all meetings open to public disclosure and review. There currently are (generally speaking) three types of meetings of the board:
1. Public meetings - which are the gazetted meetings during which the monthly business of the board is discussed and during which the members are encouraged to attend;
2. Strategy meetings - which are arranged in accordance with the board rules and the Foundation by-laws to allow the board to meet and discuss various matters. These meetings are not open to the public however any decisions made during them, are included in the following public meeting under the header of **e-Votes and Special Meeting Motions to read into minutes**; and
3. Executive sessions - which are closed sessions in line with Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 9:24–27 and therefore closed to the public for legal reasons.

Meetings of type 3 (Executive sessions) are unavoidable and although meetings of type 2 have always had and business minuted and the voting upon which ratified during the normal public meetings there have not previously been recordings made nor minutes published of those meetings.

**Motion:** "Resolved that all official meetings of the Board must be open to public attendance, and recordings and minutes published accordingly. However, private Board meetings or portions of the meeting should be closed to Directors and their delegates as required by legal, liability, or regulatory requirements, or when discussing issues of a personal nature such as HR or personnel issues and Compliance complaints. The bylaws (currently sections 4.8 and 4.9 – 'Regular Meetings' and 'Special Meetings', respectively should be updated to reflect this change."

**Sponsor:** Mark Curphy
**Second:** Glenn Ten Cate

#### Motion to ensure that no active board member or his company can directly receive sponsorship (?) funds while serving as a board member.

**Background:** Although the board has a fiduciary duty to the Foundation and that duty, along with the conflict of interest and anti-trust statement made by the members of the board, should prevent self-enrichment of this kind. There it is a feeling by some members of the board that having this explicitly stated is in the Foundation's best interest.

**Motion:** "Resolved that no member of the Board can direct grant funding to themselves or a company to which they have any financial interest."

**Sponsor:** Mark Curphy
**Second:** Glenn Ten Cate

#### Motion to change the OWASP travel policy

**Background:** Given the current state of the economy and the Foundation's coffers the board would like to discuss a reversion of the recent change to the travel policy made in [December](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings-historical/2022/202212.html#motion-to-amend-the-expenses-policy-to-allow-economy-plus-travel-for-greater-than-8-hours) and to no longer reimburse any other travel than economy class, unless there are medical reasons to do otherwise.

**Motion:** "Resolved that the OWASP travel policy is altered to only reimburse economy class flights, unless there is a valid medical reason not to"

**Sponsor:** Mark Curphy
**Second:** Glenn Ten Cate

### THE OPEN LETTER
Mark and Glenn have co-signed an open letter to the board which high-lights five items that the signatories are asking for. I'd like them to talk us through the five points high-lighted below.

1. The Foundation should publish and maintain a community plan that should include its prioritized key project initiatives, along with a suitable funding plan to support them. The [OSSF plan](https://openssf.org/oss-security-mobilization-plan/) is a useful example to reference.
2. The Foundation’s governance structure should better reflect the needs of the entire security community, increasing access and participation for corporate practitioners, governments, major sponsors, and key technology providers. We believe this can be achieved with vendor independence and is particularly necessary to attract financial sponsorship and key industry partnerships.
3. The Foundation’s funding should reflect the needs of our and other flagship projects to both sustain and improve them. We believe this would likely be in the region of five to ten million dollars per year for our projects alone. The money would be used to pay for dedicated developers, community managers, and other support staff. We would like to work with the foundation to develop project by project plans.
4. The Foundation should provide improved infrastructure and services to the community so that projects can focus on the projects themselves.
5. The Foundation should actively manage the project portfolio and local chapters, ensuring that the community is always reflected in the best possible light and that we are able to attract and retain the best talent for the community. A plan, leadership, active community management, mentoring, and better tooling are all needed.

### STRATEGIC DISCUSSIONS
 - Alignment on Mission / Vision
 - OWASP's global perception - Netguru UX / Marketing
 - Strategic plan for raising funding
 - Strategic plan for Projects
 - Strategic plan for Events
 - Future Board Structure
 - Role of Committees 
 - Staffing for the future
 - Tooling for the future

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on 15 February 2023, at 7:30pm Central European Time [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2023&month=02&day=15&hour=19&min=30&sec=0&p1=398&p2=16&p3=110&p4=197&p5=217&p6=136&p7=179&p8=438) together with the Leader's Meeting to be held at that same time.

- [15 February 2023](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202302.15.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA

***

### Staff Reports

#### Executive Director

TBA

#### Finance

TBA
