---

layout: col-sidebar
title: March 2024 In Person Meeting Day 2
date: 2024-03-19

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 19 March 2024
- Time: 0900 US Eastern, UTC 1300 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2024&month=3&day=19&hour=13&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=110&p3=197&p4=64&p5=136&p6=179)
- Location: JFK Marriott, New York, NY
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/86877898925?pwd=498jL0CkpZRJYeTCs42SRDn0SwLMKb.1)

## Agenda

<!--
Board Members
- Sam Stepanyan, Steve Springett, Kevin Johnson, Avi Douglen, Matt Tesauro, Bil Corry, and Ricardo Griffith.

Guests
Andrew van der Stock, Kelly Santalucia, Jason C. McDonald, Harold Blankenship
-->

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Corporate Supporter Packages]()
- [OWASP Learning Platform]()
- [OWASP Netherlands]()
- [OWASP Project Partner]()

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Board Prep Call for March General Board Meeting

#### Motion to Approve the OWASP Learning Platform

**Background** Jason C. McDonald will present on a proposal to create an OWASP Learning Platform. The platform will be a place for OWASP to host training materials, courses, and other educational content. The platform will be open to the public, but will also offer premium content to OWASP members and corporate supporters. The platform will be a source of revenue for OWASP, and will also help to further OWASP's mission of education and training.

- [OWASP Learning Platform]()

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the Foundation can acquire the Blend-Ed platform for the purpose of creating the OWASP Learning Platform, as described in the proposal."

**Sponsor:** TBA
**Second:** TBA

#### Member pricing (individuals)

#### Corporate supporters

Kelly will present on the new corporate supporter packages.

o Packages

o Pricing

o Selling

o Recruiting – e.g. especially fintechs/banks and the like

#### Fundraising

#### Grants

I'll try to get Jason to give the Board a presentation on what we've learned about grants over the last month or so about grants.

#### Certification / accreditation / pre-vetted trainers

#### Education – specifically Curriculum and CS101 Syllabus

#### EU entity / VAT

#### Events

- EU and US AppSec Globals - we should fix their location for various reasons
- AppSec Days - we need more of them to make up for the fixed nature of AppSec Globals

#### Projects – management and resources

#### Project funding - Project Partnerships. Harold has been working on a proposal for donors to fund specific projects directly. I'd appreciate it if we could discuss his proposal at the meeting.

#### Marketing, Advertising, and social media

#### Committees

#### KPI / OKR / specific goals for ED and staff

#### Foundation Operating Plan review and prioritization

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

Day 3 of the In Person Board meeting is on 20 March 2024, at 9 am US Eastern Time.

- [March 20 2024](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202403-20.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA
