---

layout: col-sidebar
title: November 2024 Videoconference
date: 2024-11-26

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 26 November 2024
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2024&month=11&day=26&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=110&p3=197&p4=64&p5=136&p6=179)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/88966282109?pwd=tgbr7MUDEev6ZBIGh4wMsk2cSradte.1)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Sam Stepanyan, Steve Springett, Kevin Johnson, Avi Douglen, Matt Tesauro, Bil Corry, and Ricardo Griffith.

Guests
Andrew van der Stock, Dawn Aitken, Starr Brown, Kelly Santalucia, Lauren Thomas, Chris Barbeau, Leea Hudson-Wilson.
-->

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - October 2024](/www-board/meetings-historical/2024/202410)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/13YOonn7Cfi_wuiDOSoEnzGQxnsW4Kp63FafiYuLXD6A/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance Management Report](/attachments/202410-management-report.pdf)
- [Finance Cash Flow Forecast](/attachments/202410-statement-of-cash-flow.pdf)
- [Finance AR Aging Report](/attachments/202411-ARAgingSummary.pdf)
- [Finance Uncategorized Income](/attachments/202411-uncat-income.xlsx)
- [Finance Uncategorized Expenses](/attachments/202411-uncat-expenses.xlsx)

### NEW BUSINESS

#### AppSec NZ Discussion - Global AppSec AsiaPac

Discussion on if this is a Global AppSec or not with Lauren Thomas, if it replaces AppSec Days Singapore.

#### AMS Update

Starr Brown to present an update on the AMS implementation and go live.

#### Website Discussion

Steve Springett to lead a discussion on the website re-development, including setting aside a reasonable budget to get it done in 1H 2025.

#### Certification in 2025 Budget

Sam Stepanyan will discuss adding Certification to 2025 budget.

#### OKRs for Executive Director

The Board will discuss the OKRs for the Executive Director, with Andrew van der Stock to meet with Steve Springett after his annual leave to finalize before the December Board meeting.

#### Additional roles in 2025

If time permits, a discussion on hiring new roles in 2025, and ensuring that there is adequate budget set aside for these roles.

#### Executive Session for Cairo

The Board will adjourn for an executive session with the Cairo Chapter leaders.

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on 17th December, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [December 2024](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202412)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA
