---

layout: col-sidebar
title: February 2024 Videoconference
date: 2024-02-27

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 27 February 2024
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2024&month=2&day=27&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=110&p3=197&p4=64&p5=136&p6=179)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/88966282109?pwd=tgbr7MUDEev6ZBIGh4wMsk2cSradte.1)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Sam Stepanyan, Steve Springett, Kevin Johnson, Avi Douglen, Matt Tesauro, Bil Corry, and Ricardo Griffith.

Guests
Andrew van der Stock, Dawn Aitken, Harold Blankenship, Kelly Santalucia, Lauren Thomas, Chris Barbeau, Leea Hudson-Wilson.
-->

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - January 2024](/www-board/meetings-historical/202401)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/10u4GfRLVjmNZG_po9x2orOvmNjXIKuj1gNJCi0MB_uA/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance Board Financial Report](TBA)
- [Finance Board Events P&L Report](TBA)

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Confirm Rick Mello as Compliance Officer

**Background** The Board needs to confirm Rick Mello as the Compliance Officer for the Foundation.

**Motion** Resolved, the Board confirms Rick Mello as the Compliance Officer for the Foundation.

Sponsor: Ricardo Griffith
Second: Avi Douglen

#### Motion to approve 2024 Budget

**Background** The 2024 Budget has been prepared. It shows a significant increase in revenue and expenses, and is designed to support the strategic goals of the Foundation. The budget has been reviewed by Bil Corry, Treasurer, and is now presented to the Board for approval.

- [2024 Budget](TBA)

**Note:** if the budget is not ready, this will turn into a discussion item.

Sponsor: Bil Corry
Second: Avi Douglen

#### Belgian Foundation Discussion

**Background** The Belgian entity is being shut down. A discussion needs to be had on next steps, including shutting down the ING account and transferring any remaining funds to the US Foundation.

#### Netherlands Foundation Discussion

**Background** The Netherlands entity has been in progress for some time, blocked by the US Foundation bylaws. Let's have a discussion about the need for the for the Netherlands entity and how to proceed.

- Grants (if any)
- VAT tax advantages (if any)
- Legal entity for EU operations

#### Portugal Conference and VAT Discussion

**Background** The Portugal conference is being held in Lisbon.

- Update from Lauren on the planning progress
- Update from Kelly on Corporate Sponsorship progress
- Discussion by the Board on creative solutions to the profitability problem
- The conference is being held in the EU, and the VAT rules are complex. A discussion is needed on how to handle VAT for the conference.

#### Corporate Packages

**Background** A discussion on the corporate packages composition and pricing, in particularly in relation to Member Benefits being offered at the Silver package level. Process to updating the corporate packages needs to be discussed and set.

#### Slack Discussion

**Background** Slack is an important communications platform for the Foundation. A discussion is needed on how to handle the proposed Slack costs. 

- Update from Andrew van der Stock on the current status of the Slack proposal

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on 26 March 2024, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [March 2024](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202403)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA
