---

layout: col-sidebar
title: June 2024 Videoconference
date: 2024-06-25

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 25 June 2024
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1600 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2024&month=6&day=25&hour=16&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=110&p3=197&p4=64&p5=136&p6=179)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/88966282109?pwd=tgbr7MUDEev6ZBIGh4wMsk2cSradte.1)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Sam Stepanyan, Steve Springett, Kevin Johnson, Avi Douglen, Matt Tesauro, and Bil Corry.

Apologies:
- Ricardo Griffith

Guests
Andrew van der Stock, Dawn Aitken, Kelly Santalucia, Lauren Thomas, Chris Barbeau, Leea Hudson-Wilson.
-->

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - May 2024](/www-board/meetings-historical/2024/202405)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](TBA)
- [Finance Board Narrative](TBA)
- [Finance Board Financial Report](TBA)
- [Finance Board Events P&L Report](TBA)

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Update Committee Policy to remove Compliance Committee

**Background** The Compliance Committee no longer exists. The Board directed the Foundation to prepare a pull request to make this change to remove the Compliance Committee from the Committee Policy.

Motion: "Resolved, the Board directs the OWASP Foundation to remove the Compliance Committee from the Committee Policy as per the linked pull request."

- Link to pull request: [www-policy Pull Request 147](https://github.com/OWASP/www-policy/pull/147)

**Sponsor** Avi Douglen
**Second** Sam Stepanyan

#### European liaison discussion

**Background** The Board will discuss the European liaison with CEN/CENELEC, ECMA, and the Eclipse Foundation.

Guest: Rob van der Veer

#### European Entity Discussion

**Background** A discussion of the background of the entity, and the steps forward with the European entity.

#### Website and AMS discussion

**Background** The Board will discuss the AMS and the OWASP website discussion.

#### Motion to approve Events Committee

Motion: "Resolved, the Board approves the Events Committee as per the draft Events Committee Charter."

- [Draft Events Committee Charter](https://owasp.org/www-committee-events/)

Sponsor: Kevin Johnson
Second: Avi Douglen

#### Discussion on forming more committees

**Background** The Board has identified the need for more committees. The Board will discuss the formation of more committees with the leaders present and how to get involved.

Active:

- Chapter committee  (Sam / Dawn)
- Projects committee  (Steve / Starr)
- Education and Training committee (being rebooted I think?) (Ricardo + Sam / Jason)
 
In progress:

- Events committee (just approved! I hope…) (Bil & Kevin / Lauren)
- Communication and Outreach (Steve & Kevin / Dawn + Andrew)
 
Leaders needed:

- Funding committee (Bil & AviD / Andrew)
- Diversity and Inclusion committee (AviD & Kevin / Kelly)
- Membership committee (Matt / Andrew)

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on 23rd July 2024, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [July 2024](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202407.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA
