---

layout: col-sidebar
title: September 2024 In-Person
date: 2024-09-25

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 25 September 2024
- Time: 0900 PDT, UTC 1600 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2024&month=9&day=26&hour=0&min=30&sec=0&p1=179&p2=136&p3=676&p4=137&iv=1800)
- Location: Hyatt Regency, San Francisco, CA, USA
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/88966282109?pwd=tgbr7MUDEev6ZBIGh4wMsk2cSradte.1)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

"We started approximately about 10 minutes after the scheduled time."

**Board Members**

- Sam Stepanyan
- Steve Springett
- Avi Douglen
- Ricardo Griffith
- Kevin Johnson (remote)

**Guests**

- Andrew van der Stock
- Leea Hudson-Wilson
- Chris Barbeau

** Apologies **
- Bil Corry
- Matt 

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### Financials

#### C2025 Budget w/CCFO

"We are in the best financial position we have ever been in!"

#### Budget 2024 recasting
"Avi asked about the recommendation that was suggested previously by Chris for potentially recasting the 2024 budget.  Chris indicated that we are ahead in our numbers and shouldn't have to do that at thios point. "

#### Giving Tuesday 


#### Residency program


#### More fundraising

**ACTION ITEMS**
- Andrew van der Stock and Bil Corry will work together to ensure we have the right structure in the template.
- Chris and Leea to setup 2025 budget template
- Chris and Leea to rename seperate Conference Income to Global\Local Event Expenses for next year. will work with Andrew van der Stock to ensure the template has the correct AppSecs and Projects naming.
- Leea to follow up with Andrew to ensure Column M in the workbook naming is correct and complete.  

















### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on 22nd October 2024, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [October 2024](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202410)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA
