---

layout: col-sidebar
title: July 2024 Videoconference
date: 2024-07-23

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 23 July 2024
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1600 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2024&month=7&day=23&hour=16&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=110&p3=197&p4=64&p5=136&p6=179)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/88966282109?pwd=tgbr7MUDEev6ZBIGh4wMsk2cSradte.1)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Sam Stepanyan, Steve Springett, Kevin Johnson, Avi Douglen, Matt Tesauro, Bil Corry, and Ricardo Griffith.

Guests
Andrew van der Stock, Dawn Aitken, Harold Blankenship, Kelly Santalucia, Lauren Thomas, Chris Barbeau, Leea Hudson-Wilson.
-->

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - TBA 2023](/www-board/meetings-historical/2023XX)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](TBA)
- [Finance Board Narrative](TBA)
- [Finance Board Financial Report](TBA)
- [Finance Board Events P&L Report](TBA)

### Committee Reports

TBA

### e-Votes and Special Meeting Motions to read into minutes

#### Motion to TBA

**Background** TBA

Supporting documentation or links

Motion: "Resolved, that..."

*TBA - Link to finalized Doodle Poll*

**Sponsor:** TBA
**Second:** TBA

### OLD BUSINESS

#### Discuss OWASP Foundation's Corporate Supporter Benefits

**Background** The Board wishes to discuss corporate supporter packages, and the benefits approval process.

Motion: "Resolved, the Board directs the OWASP Foundation to provide any Corporate Supporters the ability to provide individual membership benefits subject to OWASP approval."

**Sponsor:** Sam Stepanyan
**Second:** Avi Douglen

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Update on CREST OVS

**Background** Anne Purtell from CREST USA will provide an update on the sales of the CREST OVS, and the donation to OWASP as a result.

#### Motion to move the September Board Meeting to September 25th, 2024.

**Background** The public Board meeting is scheduled in the same way as in Lisbon, Portugal, and the Board wishes to move the Global AppSec San Francisco meeting to the 25th of September as a result.

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the September 2024 Board meeting is moved to 5.30 pm US PDT September 25th, 2024."

**Sponsor:** Ricardo Griffith
**Second:** Sam Stepanyan

#### Motion to pre-release Global AppSec Video Recordings to OWASP Members

**Background** Video recordings are currently released as soon as they are available. The Board wishes to provide attendees and OWASP members with early access to the video content.

**Motion:** "RESOLVED: Video recordings from OWASP Global conferences to be initially released as unlisted on YouTube, with an email notification sent to OWASP members only, providing them with early access to the video content for a period of two months prior to public release. This benefit will be available to all OWASP members in good standing".

**Sponsor:** Sam Stepanyan
**Second:** Ricardo Griffith

#### Discussion on committees

**Background** The Board wishes to discuss the current status of all existing and forming committees.

#### Executive Session to discuss Distinguished Lifetime Member Nominations

#### Executive Session to discuss HR issues

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on 27th August, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [August 2024](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202427)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA
