---

layout: col-sidebar
title: September 2024 Videoconference
date: 2024-09-25

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 25 September 2024
- Time: 1730 PDT, UTC 1600 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2024&month=9&day=26&hour=0&min=30&sec=0&p1=179&p2=136&p3=676&p4=137&iv=1800)
- Location: Hyatt Regency, San Francisco, CA, USA
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/88966282109?pwd=tgbr7MUDEev6ZBIGh4wMsk2cSradte.1)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Sam Stepanyan, Steve Springett, Kevin Johnson, Avi Douglen, Matt Tesauro, Bil Corry, and Ricardo Griffith.

Guests
Andrew van der Stock, Dawn Aitken, Starr Brown, Kelly Santalucia, Lauren Thomas, Chris Barbeau, Leea Hudson-Wilson.
-->

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - August 2024](/www-board/meetings-historical/2024/202408)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](TBA)
- [Finance Board Narrative](TBA)
- [Finance Board Financial Report](TBA)
- [Finance Board Events P&L Report](TBA)

### Committee Reports

TBA

### e-Votes and Special Meeting Motions to read into minutes

#### Motion to TBA

**Background** TBA

Supporting documentation or links

Motion: "Resolved, that..."

*TBA - Link to finalized Doodle Poll*

**Sponsor:** TBA
**Second:** TBA

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Project Committee Update

**Background** Bjorn Kimminich is the Project Committee Chair. He will provide an update on the Project Committee's activities and plans for the future.

#### Chapter Committee Update

**Background** Edmond Momartin is an officer of the Chapter Committee. He will provide an update on the Chapter Committee's activities and plans for the future.

#### Motion to approve Board Code of Conduct

**Background** In preparation for this year's election, the Executive Director had several policies reviewed by legal, and subsequently reviewed by a Board sub-committee, our community and the Policy Review team. This updated Board Code of Conduct is the result of that process. The major changes includes simplifying the Board Code of Conduct, and de-duping items already found in the standard Code of Conduct.

- [DRAFT Board Code of Conduct](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/board-code-of-conduct)

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the draft Board Code of Conduct is approved."

**Sponsor:** Steve Springett
**Second:** Sam Stepanyan

#### Motion to approve Code of Conduct Policy

**Background** In preparation for this year's election, the Executive Director had several policies reviewed by legal, and subsequently reviewed by a Board sub-committee, our community and the Policy Review team. This policy is the result of that process. There are minor legal changes recommended by our lawyers, and the Board policy review team.

- [DRAFT Code of Conduct](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/code-of-conduct)

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the draft Code of Conduct policy is approved."

**Sponsor:** Steve Springett
**Second:** Sam Stepanyan

#### Motion to approve Conflict of Interest Policy

**Background** In preparation for this year's election, the Executive Director had several policies reviewed by legal, and subsequently reviewed by a Board sub-committee, our community and the Policy Review team. This policy is the result of that process. There are minor legal changes recommended by our lawyers, and the Board policy review team.

- [DRAFT Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the draft Conflict of Interest policy is approved."

**Sponsor:** Sam Stepenyan
**Second:** Steve Springett

#### Motion to approve Election Policy

**Background** In preparation for this year's election, the Executive Director had several policies reviewed by legal, and subsequently reviewed by a Board sub-committee, our community and the Policy Review team. This policy is the result of that process. The major changes includes adding in Director qualifications and other missing items required by the Bylaws.

- [DRAFT Election Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/election)

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the draft Elections policy is approved."

**Sponsor:** Sam Stepanyan
**Second:** Steve Springett

#### Motion to approve Membership Policy

**Background** In preparation for this year's election, the Executive Director had several policies reviewed by legal, and subsequently reviewed by a Board sub-committee, our community and the Policy Review team. This policy is the result of that process. The major changes includes adding in Leaders must be Members, which was adopted by the Board in March, 2024.

- [DRAFT Membership Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/membership)

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the draft Membership policy is approved."

**Sponsor:** Steve Springett
**Second:** Sam Stepanyan

#### Motion to approve Force Majeure Policy

**Background** This policy has been in draft since 2022. Minor feedback from the Community has been incorporated.

- [DRAFT Force Majeure Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/force-majeure-sanctions)

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the draft Force Majeure policy is approved."

**Sponsor:** Sam Stepanyan
**Second:** Steve Springett

#### Announce the 2025 AppSec Conferences

**Background** Let's announce the 2025 AppSec Conferences.

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on 22nd October 2024, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [October 2024](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202410)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA
