---

layout: col-sidebar
title: May 2024 Videoconference
date: 2024-05-28

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 28 May 2024
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1600 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2024&month=5&day=28&hour=16&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=110&p3=197&p4=64&p5=136&p6=179)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/88966282109?pwd=tgbr7MUDEev6ZBIGh4wMsk2cSradte.1)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Sam Stepanyan, Steve Springett, Kevin Johnson, Avi Douglen, Matt Tesauro, Bil Corry, and Ricardo Griffith.

Guests
Andrew van der Stock, Dawn Aitken, Harold Blankenship, Kelly Santalucia, Lauren Thomas, Chris Barbeau, Leea Hudson-Wilson.
-->

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - April 2024](/www-board/meetings-historical/202404)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1M3g6JibW09qOZhdlcUcIeOpk-G8dydX1EwMMFGOmwbQ/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance: Management Report](/www-board/attachments/202404-management-report.pdf)
- [Finance: Statement of Cash Flow](/www-board/attachments/202404-statement-of-cash-flow.pdf)

### NEW BUSINESS

#### European tax entity discussion

**Background** The Board wishes to discuss the EU tax entity with a tax expert.

#### European liaison discussion

**Background** The Board will discuss the European liaison with CEN/CENELEC, ECMA, and the Eclipse Foundation.

#### Revisit Website Proposal discussion

**Background** The Board will revisit the website proposal discussion.

#### Blend Ed discussion / update

**Background** The Board will discuss the BlendEd program and its progress.

- List of requirements
- Financials
- Progress

#### Discussion on Committees

**Background** The Board will discuss the current state of committees, continuing the discussion from the JFK Board meeting.

- Recording of meetings
- Review of charters
- Committee meeting policy

#### Reschedule the June Board meeting

**Background** The Board will discuss rescheduling the June Board meeting.

Motion: "Resolved, the Board reschedules the June public Board meeting to 26th June 2024, at 1730 Lisbon time."

**Sponsor:** Avi Douglen
**Second:** Matt Tesauro

#### Executive Session

**Background** The Board will adjourn to a private executive session.

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on 26th June 2024, at 1730 Lisbon Time.

- [June 2024](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202406)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA
