---

layout: col-sidebar
title: July 2025 Videoconference
date: 2025-07-22

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 22 July 2025
- Time: 12PM US EDT, UTC 1600 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2025&month=7&day=22&hour=16&min=0&sec=0&p1=152&p2=176&p3=110&p4=136&p5=179&p6=24&p7=64)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82812814370?pwd=dUc1TIeKiaYL4uLQDnnYiCYA3e2fHn.1)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

Board Members
- Ricardo Griffith
- Steve Springett
- Harold Blankenship
- Sam Stepanyan
- Ashwini Siddhi
- Avi Douglen 
- Diego Silva Martins

Guests
- Andrew van der Stock
- Dawn Aitken
- Lauren Thomas
- Hayden Corry
- Starr Brown
- Christian Capellan
- Heather Kennedy
- Chris Barbeau
- Leea Hudson-Wilson

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - June 2025](/www-board/meetings-historical/2025/202506)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1TPm0t61n5naHXubZFMIsNme9bdn5k1Erqg_TaJKOf1I/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance Management Report](/www-board/attachments/202506-finance-summary.pdf)
- [Finance Cash Flow Forecast](/www-board/attachments/202506-finance-cash.pdf)
- [Finance Uncategorized Items](/www-board/attachments/202506-finance-ar.pdf)

### Working Group Requests and Approvals

The following Working Group requests and approvals are presented for discussion:

- Funding Working Group
- Budget Working Group (denied)
- Marketing Working Group
- Certification Working Group
- Proposed 25th Anniversary Working Group

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Motion to approve the OWASP Chapter Committee Charter

**Background** The OWASP Chapter Committee has been working on a charter to formalize its role and responsibilities within the OWASP community. The charter outlines the committee's purpose, membership, and operational guidelines.

- [Link to the OWASP Chapter Committee Charter](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MT7H-Bo65LK5ZWiX_hthO70fglhA0QA5gOdWmegIVXU/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.ibadohashrdi)

Motion: "Resolved, that the OWASP Board of Directors approves the OWASP Chapter Committee Charter as presented."

**Sponsor:** Sam Stepanyan
**Second:** Ricardo Griffith

#### Discussion on 2026 Board Elections and Director Qualifications

**Background** Led by Diego Martins and Avi Douglen, the Board is discussing the upcoming 2026 Board elections and the qualifications for Directors. This includes potential changes to the election process and criteria for candidates.

#### Discussion on OWASP (current) Europe Entity

**Background** The Belgian government and our current accountants for the old EU entity have requested that OWASP formally close the old entity. The Board is discussing the implications and next steps for this closure.

#### Discussion on OWASP (new) EU Foundation Entity

**Background** A status update on the new OWASP EU Foundation iVZW entity. At the time of writing, the new entity.

#### Discussion on OWASP 25th Anniversary

**Background** OWASP is celebrating its 25th anniversary in 2026. The Board is discussing plans for the celebration, including events, activities, and potential collaborations.

#### Discussion on OWASP Badging Program

**Background** The OWASP Badging Program is a new initiative to recognize and reward contributions to OWASP projects and activities. The Foundation is delivering this in the August timeframe, initially focusing on the OWASP Education Committee and the Papers Committee.

#### Motion to move the Board meetings three hours earlier

**Background** The Board meeting has traditionally been held at 12 PM US Eastern Time, but this has caused issues for some Board members and the Executive Director in different time zones. The motion is to move the meeting three hours earlier to [9 am US Eastern Time]().

Motion: "Resolved, that from August 2025, the OWASP Board of Directors will hold its regular monthly meetings at 9 am US Eastern Time on the fourth Tuesday of each month until further notice."

**Sponsor:** Ricardo Griffith
**Second:** Diego Martins

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on August 26 2025, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [August 2025](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202508)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA
