---

layout: col-sidebar
title: June 2025 Videoconference
date: 2025-06-24

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 24 June 2025
- Time: 12PM US EDT, UTC 1600 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2025&month=6&day=24&hour=16&min=0&sec=0&p1=152&p2=176&p3=110&p4=136&p5=179&p6=24&p7=64)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82812814370?pwd=dUc1TIeKiaYL4uLQDnnYiCYA3e2fHn.1)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

Board Members
- Ricardo Griffith
- Steve Springett
- Harold Blankenship
- Sam Stepanyan
- Ashwini Siddhi
- Avi Douglen 
- Diego Silva Martins

Guests
- Andrew van der Stock
- Dawn Aitken
- Lauren Thomas
- Hayden Corry
- Starr Brown
- Christian Capellan
- Heather Kennedy
- Chris Barbeau
- Leea Hudson-Wilson

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - May 2025](/www-board/meetings-historical/2025/202505)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ssyDh6lgG0YU5k_HA46GVFNc-uJCsYhTAlkpfBK36Sg/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance Management Report](/www-board/attachments/202505-finance-summary.pdf)
- [Finance Cash Flow Forecast](/www-board/attachments/202505-finance-cash.pdf)
- [Finance Uncategorized Items](/www-board/attachments/202505-finance-ar.xlsx)

### Committee Reports

Chapter Committee - Charter Discussion

### NEW BUSINESS

#### 25th Anniversary Celebration

**Background** OWASP is celebrating its 25th anniversary in 2025. The Board is discussing how to celebrate this milestone.

#### Discussion on extending OWASP Foundation Board Member Terms

**Background** The Board is considering extending the terms of current Board members from two to four years, starting with the 2026 elections.

#### Seek legal advice on OWASP Commercial Entity

Advice on new commercial entity has been sought, engagement letter soon and will report to the Board by the July Board meeting (or via internal Global Board list)

#### EU Entity Governance and Protections

Due to illness, updates to the EU Entity constitution have yet to be finalized. A general meeting of the new EU Board will need to be called to approve the changes once they are ready.

#### Discussion on Marketing 

**Background**: The Board has discussed the need for real marketing efforts on several occasions (covering all of corporate support, event sponsorship, event attendance, training attendance, individual membership and participation, projects, etc etc). We would like to have clarity on the current situation, and discuss how we can move forward effectively. 

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

#### Executive Session - HR

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on July 22 2025, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [July 2025](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202507)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA
