---

layout: col-sidebar
title: December 2025 Videoconference
date: 2025-12-16

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 16 December 2025
- Time: 0900 AM US EST, UTC 1400 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2025&month=12&day=16&hour=14&min=0&sec=0&p1=152&p2=176&p3=110&p4=136&p5=179&p6=24&p7=64)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82812814370?pwd=dUc1TIeKiaYL4uLQDnnYiCYA3e2fHn.1)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

Board Members
- Ricardo Griffith
- Steve Springett
- Harold Blankenship
- Sam Stepanyan
- Ashwini Siddhi
- Avi Douglen 
- Diego Silva Martins

Guests
- Andrew van der Stock
- Dawn Aitken
- Lauren Thomas
- Hayden Corry
- Starr Brown
- Christian Capellan
- Stacey Ebbs
- Heather Kennedy
- Chris Barbeau
- Leea Hudson-Wilson
- Marisa Fagan
- Kelly Santalucia

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://policy.owasp.org/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://policy.owasp.org/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://policy.owasp.org/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - November 2025](/meetings-historical/2025/202511)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1jlxt6ZCqhOgPjEzN7JLmoyuYbD7mwk0WK8JT2hRvTjg/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance Management Report](/attachments/202511-finance-summary.pdf)
- [Finance Cash Flow Forecast](/attachments/202511-finance-cash.pdf)
- [Finance Accounts Receivable](/attachments/202511-finance-ar.pdf)

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Update on the UK Training Days

**Background** Lauren Thomas will provide an update on the forthcoming UK Training Days event, including planning progress, speaker lineup, and promotional activities, and how the Board can help promote the event.

#### Discussion to modify the Membership Policy to add benefits for Distinguished Lifetime Members

**Background** The Board will discuss a proposal to modify the Membership Policy to add specific benefits for Distinguished Lifetime Members. This change aims to recognize and reward long-term commitment and contributions to OWASP.

- [Draft pull request for Membership Policy changes](https://github.com/OWASP/www-policy/pull/160/files)

#### Update on the OWASP Website Redesign

**Background** Andrew van der Stock will provide an update on the progress of the OWASP website redesign project, including key milestones, challenges faced, and next steps.

#### Update on 25th Anniversary Planning

**Background** Andrew van der Stock will provide an update on the planning for OWASP's 25th Anniversary celebrations, including upcoming events, marketing efforts, and community engagement activities.

#### Discussion on OWASP Marketing Strategy

**Background** Stacey Ebbs will lead a discussion on OWASP's marketing strategy, including current initiatives, future plans, and how the Board can support these efforts.

#### Motion to approve Board of Directors Policy

**Background** Avi Douglen has led a proposed change to the Election policy, creating a Board of Directors Policy, creating a new draft policy for consideration. This policy has received feedback from the community, which has been incorporated into the current draft by the Policy Review Team. The new policy proposes stronger qualifications for candidates, conflict-of-interest clarifications, and ranked-choice voting (STV). The director qualifications in the new policy is not applicable to the 2025 elections for Director qualifications, but the new seating procedure will be used for the 2026 Directors.

**Motion** "Resolved, that the Board approves the Board of Directors Policy, replacing the existing Election Policy, effective immediately."

- [Draft Policy](https://policy.owasp.org/operational/director)
- [Feedback as a PR](https://github.com/OWASP/www-policy/pull/159)
- [Feedback Summary](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13XOeOPEOUIZZ6qjrRP9b5SSKMmAyERHYxmI9c6bggjw/edit?gid=0#gid=0)

Sponsor: Avi Douglen
Second: Harold Blankenship

#### Motion to approve Board of Directors Policy bylaw changes

**Motions to amend the bylaws:** "Resolved, the OWASP Foundation Bylaws are amended to reflect the change from the Election Policy to the Board of Directors Policy, including removing references to the old Election Policy, effective immediately."

- [Bylaw Change Pull Request](https://github.com/OWASP/www-policy/pull/156)

Sponsor: Avi Douglen
Second: Ricardo Griffith

#### Motion to approve Anti Trust Policy

**Motion to approve the antitrust policy** "Resolved, that the Board approves the Antitrust Policy, which is required to ensure compliance with US antitrust laws, effective immediately."

- [Draft Antitrust Policy](https://policy.owasp.org/operational/antitrust)

Sponsor: Avi Douglen
Second: Diego Martins

#### Board 2025 Year End Review and Social

**Background** The Board will review the accomplishments of 2025, thank departing Board members, and a social gathering to celebrate the end of the year.

#### Executive Session Placeholder

The Board will potentially adjourn to a closed executive session to discuss confidential matters. Only Board members and invited guests will attend.

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next special closed Board meeting to elect Board Officers will be held on Monday January 5 2026, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

The next general Board meeting is on Wednesday January 28 2026, at 4 pm Central European Time.

- [January 2026](https://board.owasp.org/meetings/202601)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA
