---

layout: col-sidebar
title: January 2026 Videoconference
date: 2026-01-28

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 28 January 2026
- Time: 4 PM Central European Time, UTC 1500 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2026&month=1&day=28&hour=15&min=0&sec=0&p1=152&p2=224&p3=24&p4=64&p5=136&p6=179&p7=176&p8=173&p9=16)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/87866376043?pwd=HUrXXZAndcz08pxDDVz9iPQ8Vq2pjl.1&jst=2)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

Board Members
- Ricardo Griffith
- Steve Springett
- Harold Blankenship
- Sam Stepanyan
- Ashwini Siddhi
- Kelly Santalucia
- Marisa Fagan

Guests
- Andrew van der Stock
- Dawn Aitken
- Lauren Thomas
- Hayden Corry
- Starr Brown
- Christian Capellan
- Heather Kennedy
- Stacey Ebbs
- Chris Barbeau
- Leea Hudson-Wilson
- Grant Ongers

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://policy.owasp.org/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://policy.owasp.org/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://policy.owasp.org/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

#### Motion to amend the agenda

"Resolved, that the agenda for the January 28, 2026, OWASP Foundation Board meeting be amended to include discussion and a vote on ."


### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - December 2025](/meetings-historical/2025/202512)
- [Previous Meeting Minutes - Officer Elections 2026](/meetings-historical/2026/20206-01)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1fKVQO_jNflnrezUKam2t2j3ymFXz5ADjkz7AbXY8a7Y/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance Board Summary Video](https://youtu.be/zt5aX6J3dKU)
- [Finance Summary](/attachments/202512-finance-summary.pdf)
- [Finance YTD 2025 Profit and Loss](/attachments/202512-finance-ytd-pl.pdf)
- [Finance YTD 2025 Balance Sheet](/attachments/202512-finance-balances.pdf)
- [Finance Dec 2025 Aged Receivables](/attachments/202512-finance-ar.pdf)

### NEW BUSINESS

### [If the agenda is successfully amended] Motion to establish OWASP Global Board Audit Committee

**Motion**: "Resolved, That the Global Board of Directors approves and adopts the OWASP Global Board Audit Committee Charter, as presented, and establishes the Audit Committee as a standing committee of the Board, effective immediately."

- [Draft Global Board Audit Committee Charter](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nOyWCwmHXcQ8cCO5UBIYWPvrZo-guTdfiW3-ne3yPmE/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.12disdac53qd)

Sponsor: Ricardo Griffith
Second: Steve Springett

#### 25th Anniversary Planning Update

**Background** The Board will receive an update on the planning activities from the OWASP Foundation staff for OWASP's 25th Anniversary celebrations in 2026. This includes event planning, marketing strategies, and community engagement initiatives to commemorate this milestone.

Suggested discussion time: 10 minutes

#### Discussion on Meetup Transition

**Background** In the last few business days of 2025, Meetup.com announced changes to their pricing structure that will significantly impact local OWASP chapters using the platform for event organization. This aims to discuss the migration of nearly all chapters and projects to the OWASP website event management system, rather than relying on Meetup.com.

- [Mark Curphey's blog article on OWASP's GoLang advice](https://crashoverride.com/blog/ai-security-guidance-vs-outdated-owasp-go-practices)

Suggested discussion time: 20 minutes

#### Membership Policy amendment proposal

**Background** The Board will discuss a proposal to modify the Membership Policy to add specific benefits for Distinguished Lifetime Members. This change aims to recognize and reward long-term commitment and contributions to OWASP.

**Summary:**

- Proposal: Distinguished Lifetime Members receive lifetime leader benefits, including leader discounts and access privileges.
- Board voiced general support.
- Sam will prepare a formal policy modification for next meeting.

- [Draft Membership Policy](https://github.com/OWASP/www-policy/pull/160)

Suggested discussion time: 15 minutes

#### OWASP Brand Reputation Management

**Background** The Board will discuss strategies for managing and protecting the OWASP brand reputation in light of recent events involving certain project(s). The discussion will revolve around understand risks around projects with poor quality or outdated information, and how to mitigate potential negative impacts on OWASP's overall reputation.

Suggested discussion time: 15 minutes

#### AI Policy Discussion

**Background** Andrew van der Stock will lead a discussion on the development of a future AI policy for OWASP. This policy aims to address the ethical use of AI technologies within OWASP projects and initiatives, ensuring alignment with OWASP's mission and values.

Additionally, we should discuss if this needs to be a policy that covers all contributions, not just projects. As there are multiple concepts to consider, we may need three distinct policies, or one combined policy with separate sections:

- One covering projects
- One covering AI submissions to the VDP
- One covering AI submissions to events and training

One example discussed in the paper is that of low quality mass-generated security vulnerability submissions made with AI tools that could make running OWASP's CRA-mandated vulnerability disclosure program (VDP) difficult or impossible, as validating and then "fixing" all these submissions would take an inordinate amount of time and effort from staff, project maintainers, and contributors.

- [AI Policy Discussion](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eIt5HkrDcT5o2G4NBslVWMnno0hrhJs6bPBKrvtEOPE/edit?usp=sharing)

Suggested discussion time: 15 minutes

#### Executive Session

The Board will adjourn to an executive session to discuss a sensitive matter.

Suggested discussion time: 15 minutes

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on February 24, 2026, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [February 24 2026](https://board.owasp.org/meetings/202602.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA

***
