---

layout: col-sidebar
title: January 2026 Election of Officers Videoconference
date: 2026-01-05

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 05 January 2026
- Time: 12PM US Eastern Standard Time, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2026&month=1&day=5&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=64&p3=24&p4=179&p5=173&p6=136&p7=176&p8=152&p9=16)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: Zoom Details have been sent to Board Members.

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

Board Members
- Ricardo Griffith
- Steve Springett
- Harold Blankenship
- Sam Stepanyan
- Ashwini Siddhi
- Kelly Santalucia
- Marisa Fagan

Guests
- Andrew van der Stock
- Dawn Aitken

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://policy.owasp.org/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://policy.owasp.org/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://policy.owasp.org/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- OWASP Bylaws: [https://policy.owasp.org/legal/bylaws](https://policy.owasp.org/legal/bylaws), Article IV - Section 6.3 - Election of Officers

### NEW BUSINESS - Election of Officers for 2026

This is a closed Board meeting for the purpose of electing officers for 2026, as required by the OWASP Bylaws, Section 6.3:

> Section 6.3 Election
> The Board of Directors at its first meeting after each annual election of Directors shall choose a Chair, Vice Chair, Treasurer, and a Secretary. Other Officers may be elected by the Board of Directors at such meeting, and any or all Officers may be replaced, at any other meeting of, or by written consent of, the Board of Directors.

#### Motion to Elect Chair

**Background** The previous Chair will conduct nominations from the floor for the position of Chair. The Chair will then call for a vote. Once elected, the new Chair will assume the role of Chair for the remainder of the meeting.

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the 2026 Chair of the Board of Directors is elected as follows: TBA"

**Sponsor:** Ricardo Griffith
**Second:** Sam Stepanyan

At this point, the acting Chair (Ricardo Griffith) will hand the meeting over to the new Chair, who will run the rest of the meeting.

#### Motion to Elect Vice Chair

**Background** The Chair will conduct nominations from the floor for the position of Vice Chair. The Chair will then call for a vote.

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the 2026 Vice Chair of the Board of Directors is elected as follows: TBA"

**Sponsor:** TBA
**Second:** TBA

#### Motion to Elect Treasurer

**Background** The Chair will conduct nominations from the floor for the position of Treasurer. The Chair will then call for a vote.

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the 2026 Treasurer of the Board of Directors is elected as follows: TBA"

**Sponsor:** TBA
**Second:** TBA

#### Motion to Elect Secretary

**Background** The Chair will conduct nominations from the floor for the position of Secretary. The Chair will then call for a vote. Once elected, the new Secretary will assume the role of Secretary for the remainder of the meeting, collecting minutes from the previous Secretary as necessary.

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the 2026 Secretary of the Board of Directors is elected as follows: TBA"

**Sponsor:** TBA
**Second:** TBA

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

There is a Board Summit scheduled to be in person on January 26-28, 2026 in Amsterdam, Netherlands.
- [January 2026 Board Summit](https://board.owasp.org/meetings/202601-02)

The next general Board meeting is on January 28, at 4 pm Central European Time.
- [January 2026 Public Meeting](https://board.owasp.org/meetings/202601-03.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA

***
