---

layout: col-sidebar
title: June 2026 Videoconference
date: 2026-06-24

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 24 June 2026
- Time: 17:30 - 19:00 Central European Summer Time, UTC 15:30 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2026&month=06&day=24&hour=15&min=30&sec=0&p1=224&p2=64&p3=24&p4=179&p5=173&p6=136&p7=176&p8=152&p9=16)
- Location: In person at OWASP Global AppSec Vienna 2026, Room TBD
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/84767764899?pwd=JUTby5vl5GeexaBxUswgHraNWbcrdz.1&jst=2)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

Board Members
- Ricardo Griffith
- Steve Springett
- Harold Blankenship
- Sam Stepanyan
- Ashwini Siddhi
- Kelly Santalucia
- Marisa Fagan

Guests
- Andrew van der Stock
- Missie Lindsey
- Starr Brown
- Stacey Ebbs
- Chris Barbeau (via remote, subject to availability)
- Leea Hudson-Wilson (via remote, subject to availability)

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://policy.owasp.org/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://policy.owasp.org/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://policy.owasp.org/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - May 2026](/meetings-historical/2026/202605)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1UVA00zznwCcHZ6a8XRPCMehojAOgk8jR3yDyadKGMnY/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance Board Summary Video - TBA](TBA)
- [Finance Board Summary](/attachments/202605-finance-summary.pdf)
- [Finance Board Cash Flow Forecast](/attachments/202605-finance-cashflow.pdf)
- [Finance Board Aged Receivables - TBA](TBA)

### Committee Reports

Unfortunately, Project Committee representatives will not be present in Vienna. An update will be presented at a later Board meeting.

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Summary of private Board meeting and outcomes

**Background** A summary of the private Board meeting held on June 23, 2026, will be provided by Marisa Fagan.

#### Discussion on website update

**Background** The new OWASP website is nearly ready to be launched. The Board will discuss the launch plan and any outstanding issues.

#### Discussion on when Chapter creation will be back online

**Background** A discussion of when the Chapter creation process will be back online, and any outstanding issues, including student chapters.

#### Student chapter discussion

**Background** The majority of student chapters are inactive as required by policy. The Board will discuss how to support student chapters and encourage activity by student chapters.

#### Chapter policy discussion

**Background** Update on the Chapter policy, to include that Chapter leaders must be be OWASP members in good standing. The Board will discuss the policy and any outstanding issues.

#### Policy review discussion

**Background** The Board will discuss the progress of the policy review process, and what is required to bring policies to the Board for approval.

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on July 28, 2026, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [July 2026](https://board.owasp.org/202607.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA

***
