---

layout: col-sidebar
title: April 2026 Videoconference
date: 2026-04-28

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 28 April 2026
- Time: 12PM US Eastern Daylight Time, UTC 1600 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2026&month=04&day=28&hour=16&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=64&p3=24&p4=179&p5=173&p6=136&p7=176&p8=152&p9=16)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/84767764899?pwd=JUTby5vl5GeexaBxUswgHraNWbcrdz.1&jst=2)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

Board Members
- Ricardo Griffith
- Steve Springett
- Harold Blankenship
- Sam Stepanyan
- Ashwini Siddhi
- Kelly Santalucia
- Marisa Fagan

Guests
- Andrew van der Stock
- Lauren Thomas
- Starr Brown
- Christian Capellan
- Heather Kennedy
- Stacey Ebbs
- Missie Lindsey
- Chris Barbeau
- Leea Hudson-Wilson

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://policy.owasp.org/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://policy.owasp.org/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://policy.owasp.org/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - March 2026](/meetings-historical/2026/202603)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1GgwLgHJ93NxuDxvUviYc1vg3aK6lYD_T2lfL1BfFBOQ/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance Board Summary Video](https://youtu.be/IcRH8ZvWfcM)
- [Finance Board Summary](/attachments/202603-finance-summary.pdf)
- [Finance Cash Flow Forecast](/attachments/202603-cashflow.pdf)
- [Finance Uncategorized Income/Expenses](/attachments/202603-uncategorized.xlsx)

### e-Votes and Special Meeting Motions to read into minutes

#### Motion to contract with Harold Blankenship for OWASP Foundation operational support

**Motion** "Resolved, the Executive Director is permitted to contract with Harold Blankenship at market rates as determined by similar roles advertised on Upwork.

To address perceived or actual conflicts of interest, based upon legal advice, the following guardrails will be in place:

- Harold's Treasurer duties will remain insofar as to provide financial oversight for the Board, reviewing the monthly financial summaries from the Charity CFO, and finally, any preparation needed for the external audit, but not expense co-approvals
-The Chair will co-approve amounts exceeding the Executive Director's signing limit.
- Harold will not approve his own expenses, including Board travel and contracting fees.
- Harold's duties will primarily be operational in nature, including processing chapter and membership tickets, assisting with operational matters, and ensuring the day-to-day business of the Foundation is conducted in a timely fashion.
- If Harold is still being contracted at the time the election processes kick off, as he is a sitting Board member, he will not be handling any part of the election operational process.

If any actual or perceived conflicts of interest arise, then the Board will follow the Conflict of Interest policy to address any potential breaches."

**Sponsor:** Marisa Fagan
**Second:** Ashwini Siddhi

Ashwini Siddhi YES
Steve Springett YES
Marisa Fagan YES
Ricardo Griffith NO
Kelly Santalucia YES
Sam Stepanyan NO

Harold Blankenship recused himself from the vote due to the conflict of interest.

Motion Passed 4-2

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Missie Lindsey - Introducing our new OWASP Foundation Director of Corporate Support

**Background** Missie Lindsey has joined the OWASP Foundation as our new Director of Corporate Support. Missie will be responsible for building and maintaining relationships with corporate sponsors, identifying new sponsorship opportunities, fundraising, and grants, industry advisory committee, and ensuring that our corporate partners receive the support they need to succeed. Missie will present on her plans to review and identify a plan to grow our corporate support program.

#### Community Review Policy Review Update

**Background** Avi Douglen to provide a short update on the community review process for the agreed policies, including any policy reviews have completed, recent changes or improvements, and how the Board can support the process moving forward.

#### OWASP Foundation 2026 Strategic Plan Update

**Background** Stacey Ebbs to provide an update on the progress of the OWASP Foundation 2026 Strategic Plan, which is nearly ready for publication.

#### Website Update

**Background** An update on the progress of the OWASP Foundation website redesign, including any new features or improvements that have been implemented, and any feedback or suggestions from the Board.

#### Helpdesk ticketing update

**Background** Andrew van der Stock to provide a report on the state of the Jira helpdesk ticketing system, including current ticket volume, response times, and any trends or issues that have been identified.

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on May 26, 2026, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [May 2026](https://board.owasp.org/meetings/202605.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA

***
