---

layout: col-sidebar
title: May 2026 Videoconference
date: 2026-05-26

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 26 May 2026
- Time: 12PM US Eastern Daylight Time, UTC 1600 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2026&month=05&day=26&hour=16&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=64&p3=24&p4=179&p5=173&p6=136&p7=176&p8=152&p9=16)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/84767764899?pwd=JUTby5vl5GeexaBxUswgHraNWbcrdz.1&jst=2)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

Board Members
- Ricardo Griffith
- Steve Springett
- Harold Blankenship
- Sam Stepanyan
- Ashwini Siddhi
- Kelly Santalucia
- Marisa Fagan

Guests
- Andrew van der Stock
- Missie Lindsey
- Starr Brown
- Christian Capellan
- Stacey Ebbs
- Chris Barbeau
- Leea Hudson-Wilson

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://policy.owasp.org/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://policy.owasp.org/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://policy.owasp.org/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - April 2026](/meetings-historical/2026/202604)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ouET6-XwW_n8x46cSgjSO6Gyol3IWD4pnM3joDYn6rQ/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance Board Summary Video](TBA)
- [Finance Board Summary](/attachments/202604-finance-summary.pdf)
- [Finance Board Cash Flow Forecast](/attachments/202604-finance-cashflow.pdf)
- [Finance Board Uncategorized Income/Expenses](/attachments/202604-finance-uncat.xlsx)

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Motion to update Distinguished Lifetime Member Benefits

**Background** Discussion on the benefits for Distinguished Lifetime Members. The policy has been through the community review process, and feedback has been incorporated in pull request 160, which also removes Wufoo in favor of our GDPR compliant form provider.

**Motion** "Resolved, the Board of Directors approves the update to the Distinguished Lifetime Member Benefits as outlined in pull request 160."

- [Pull Request 160 - Update Distinguished Lifetime Member Benefits](https://github.com/OWASP/www-policy/pull/160)

- Sponsor: Sam Stepanyan
- Second: Ricardo Griffith

#### Discuss Code of Conduct Updates for OWASP Participants and Members

**Background** Discussion on the reviewing and updating the code of conduct for OWASP participants and members. If so, what should it include? How should it be promoted and complied with?

- [OWASP Code of Conduct](https://policy.owasp.org/operational/code-of-conduct)

#### Discuss proposed Corporate and Social Responsibility policies

**Background** Charity Navigator, Candid (nee Guidestar), and many vendors are now requiring us to have policies on modern slavery and human trafficking, more robust anti-corruption, and other social contract policies. Andrew van der Stock to detail the need for the three social contract policies below. If the Board agrees to these policies, they would be put through the Community Review Process for a vote at a future Board meeting.

- New [Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy](https://policy.owasp.org/operational/anti-slavery-and-human-trafficking)
- New [Corporate and Social Responsibility Policy](https://policy.owasp.org/operational/csr)
- Updated [Anti-Trust, Anti-Corruption and Competition Policy](https://policy.owasp.org/operational/antitrust)

#### Discussion on OWASP Staff Liaison at Committee Meetings and Conferences

**Background** Discussion on staff liaisons at committee meetings, and staffing at conferences. Should staff attend conferences? If so, which ones? What is the budget for staff attendance at conferences?

#### Discuss safety team for events

**Background** Starr Brown to provide an update on the status of the safety team training and implementation for OWASP events. What is the status of the safety team training? How is it being implemented at events?

#### Operational Update on Chapter and Project Tickets

**Background** Harold Blankenship, Starr Brown, and Andrew van der Stock will provide an update on the status of chapter and project tickets. Has chapter leader tickets been updated to include that chapter leaders should be members? The policy should be updated to reflect that chapter leaders should be members, and the ticket should be updated to reflect that as well.

#### Operational Update on Industry Advisory Council

**Background** Starr Brown and Missie Lindsey to provide an update on the status of the Industry Advisory Council and what's required to launch it and when it will be launched.

#### Operational Update on New Website

**Background** Update on status of the website update and penetration testing, including 

- Status of OWASP Foundation provided content before go live including ensuring all current projects and chapters are listed on the new website.
- Status of penetration testing and remediation of any findings before go live.
- Status of training for chapter and project leaders on the new website, and if we are going to have a leader town hall / training session on the new website for chapter and project leaders to learn how to use the new website.
- Update on the status of chapter management, and if GlueUp moves to the main website rather than keep on paying for chapter management on Glue Up.
- Status of Meetup migration as a result of this effort.

#### Operational Update on EU Entities

**Background** Update on the status of the old and new entities in the EU, and the status of the funds held in ING.

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next private Board meeting is on June 23-24, 2026, at 9 am Central European Time, in person at OWASP Global AppSec Vienna 2026. Details will be sent to Board members separately.

- [June Private Board Meeting 2026](https://board.owasp.org/meetings-historical/2026/202606-01.html)

The next general Board meeting is on June 24, 2026, at 5:30 - 7:00 pm Central European Time, in person at OWASP Global AppSec Vienna 2026.

- [June Public Board Meeting 2026](https://board.owasp.org/meetings-historical/2026/202606-02.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA

***
