---

layout: col-sidebar
title: July 2026 Videoconference
date: 2026-07-28

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 28 July 2026
- Time: 12PM US Eastern Daylight Time, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2026&month=07&day=28&hour=16&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=64&p3=24&p4=179&p5=173&p6=136&p7=176&p8=152&p9=16)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/84767764899?pwd=JUTby5vl5GeexaBxUswgHraNWbcrdz.1&jst=2)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

Board Members
- Ricardo Griffith
- Steve Springett
- Harold Blankenship
- Sam Stepanyan
- Ashwini Siddhi
- Kelly Santalucia
- Marisa Fagan

Guests
- Andrew van der Stock
- Missie Lindsey
- Starr Brown
- Christian Capellan
- Stacey Ebbs
- Chris Barbeau
- Leea Hudson-Wilson

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://policy.owasp.org/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://policy.owasp.org/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://policy.owasp.org/legal/directors-commitment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - June 2026 Private Board Meeting Summary / Minutes](/meetings-historical/2026/202606-01)
- [Previous Meeting Minutes - June 2026 Public Board Minutes](/meetings-historical/2026/202606-02)
- [Previous Meeting Minutes - June 2026 First Private EU Board Meeting Summary / Minutes](/meetings-historical/2026/202606-eu-01)
- [Previous Meeting Minutes - June 2026 Second Private EU Board Meeting Summary / Minutes](/meetings-historical/2026/202606-eu-02)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1zuq6VengLQszA-H2FE7z-EMcXwIm0EV8XqaHDIXsDNk/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance Board Summary Video](TBA)
- [Finance Board Summary](TBA)
- [Finance Board Cash Flow Forecast](TBA)
- [Finance Board Aged Receivables](TBA)

### Committee Reports

Proposed Project Committee update from Bjoern.

Quick update on the status of the reformation of the Chapter Committee from Sam.

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Welcome our new Associate Executive Director

A quick introduction to Lori Meagher, who is our new Associate Executive Director.

#### Motion to update the Chapter Policy to align policy with the Leaders as Members policy in force since 2024

**Background** In 2024, the Board approved a policy change that required Leaders to be Members. The Chapter Policy has not been updated to reflect this change. This motion is to update the Chapter Policy to align with the Leaders as Members policy.

- [Draft Chapter Policy](TBA)

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the OWASP Board of Directors approves the update to the Chapter Policy to require that OWASP Chapter Leaders must be OWASP Members."

**Sponsor:** Sam Stepanyan
**Second:** Marisa Fagan

#### Policy review updates

**Background** The Board has been reviewing the OWASP policies to ensure they are up to date and aligned with the current practices of the organization. This update discusses the current status of the policy review process, and any upcoming policies that require community review and voting in future public Board meetings.

#### Advisory Council update

**Background** Missie Lindsey and Stacey Ebbs will provide an update on the Industry Advisory Council, including the current status of the council, any upcoming initiatives, and any feedback from corporate supporters.

#### Chapters creation update

**Background** Andrew van der Stock and Harold Blankenship to provide an update on chapter creation, including the current status of new chapters, and any challenges faced.

#### Student Chapters Working Group

**Background** The Board has been discussing the formation of a Student Chapters Working Group to support the growth and development of OWASP Student Chapters. This update by Marisa Fagan will provide an overview of the working group, its goals, and any upcoming initiatives.

#### Discussion on Awarding an OWASP Scholarship

**Background** This item is awaiting legal feedback, but if received, a discussion on the potential awarding of an OWASP Scholarship.

#### Executive Session on staffing

Discussion on combining the Community Support Representative and the IT Support role into a single role.

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on August 25, 2026, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [August 2026](https://board.owasp.org/meetings/202608.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA

***
