---

layout: col-sidebar
title: November 2022 Public Board Meeting
date: 2022-11-16

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: Wednesday 16 November 2022
- Time: 7 PM US Pacific Standard Time, UTC 0300 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2022&month=11&day=16&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=16&p3=110&p4=197&p5=217&p6=136&p7=179&p8=438)
- Location: Global AppSec San Francisco, Bayview A, Hyatt Regency, San Francisco, CA, USA
- [Recording](https://youtu.be/AEKYPfuFr9g)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

<!--
Board Members
- Vandana Verma Sehgal
- Grant Ongers
- Glenn ten Cate
- Avi Douglen
- Martin Knobloch
- Joubin Jabbari
- Bil Corry

Guests
- Andrew van der Stock
- Shelby Graham
- Dawn Aitken
- Harold Blankenship
- Kelly Santalucia
- Lisa Jones
- Lauren Thomas

-->

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - October 2022](/www-board/meetings-historical/2022/202210)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [Executive Director Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1hPGPmU46s6N5aa6sOnKOdIlyR06QchaiDhct_p81siM/edit?usp=sharing)

- [October 2022 Financial Narrative (.docx)](/www-board/attachments/202210-finance-narrative.docx)
- [October 2022 Financial Package (.xlsx)](/www-board/attachments/202210-finance-package.xlsx)

### REPORTS

[Staff reports](#staff-reports)

- [Executive Director](#executive-director)
- [Finance](#finance)

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Meet the new Board members

A chance for the OWASP Board and present members to meet Mark Curphey and Matt Tesauro, newly elected to the 2023 Board. Mark and Matt will introduce themselves and answer questions.

#### 2023 Draft Budget

Shelby Graham will present the draft budget for 2023.

#### Bylaws and policies update

Andrew van der Stock will take the Board and attendees through where the bylaws and related policies stand and what the next steps are.

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### November 22, 2022 Meeting cancelled

The previously published November 2022 meeting has been cancelled.

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on December 20, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

Note: This is the **third** Tuesday, not the fourth.

- [December 2022](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202212.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

- Sponsor: Vandana Verma Sehgal
- Second: Avi Douglen


***

### Staff Reports

#### Executive Director

Please see the [Executive Director Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1hPGPmU46s6N5aa6sOnKOdIlyR06QchaiDhct_p81siM/edit?usp=sharing) for the latest updates.

#### Finance

Shelby Graham will discuss the financials year to date.
