---

layout: col-sidebar
title: August 2024 Videoconference
date: 2024-08-27

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 27 August 2024
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1600 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2024&month=8&day=27&hour=16&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=110&p3=197&p4=64&p5=136&p6=179)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/14Q8mo9XFowMe4BkGObZR9dYkWqLrHn2g/view?usp=sharing)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

**Board Members**
- Sam Stepanyan, Steve Springett, Kevin Johnson, Avi Douglen, Matt Tesauro, Bil Corry, and Ricardo Griffith.

**Guests**
- Compliance Team: Grant Ongers, Rick Mello
- Staff: Andrew van der Stock, Dawn Aitken, Starr Brown, Kelly Santalucia, Lauren Thomas
- Charity CFO: Chris Barbeau, Leea Hudson-Wilson

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - July 2024](/www-board/meetings-historical/2024/202407)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1dsri8G8RGfHyMRjkX2hCwIkgQn-dQ2Ve1b1x9bGkCn4/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance Board Management Report](/www-board/attachments/202407-management-report.pdf)
- [Finance Board Statement of Cash Flow](/www-board/attachments/202407-statement-of-cash-flow.pdf)

### e-Votes

#### Motion to adjust 

**Motion**: "I move that we amend the agenda for Tuesday, August 27, 2024, board meeting to include a closed executive session to discuss a member's injunction with a Compliance Officer."

**Sponsor**: Avi Douglen Second: TBA

- Avi Douglen: YES
- Matt Tesauro: YES
- Steve Springett: YES
- Kevin Johnson: YES
- Bil Corry: YES
- Ricardo Griffith: YES
- Sam Stepanyan: YES

Passes 7-0, motion is carried to add a closed executive session to the agenda.

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Motion to change the date of the December 2024 Board Meeting

**Background** The December 2024 Board meeting is currently scheduled for December 24th, 2024. The Board has been asked to consider moving the meeting to December 17th, 2024, to avoid conflicts with the holiday season. The Board prep call would be moved back a week earlier as a result of this motion.

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the December 2024 Board meeting be moved to December 17th, 2024 at 1200 US EST."

**Sponsor:** Avi Douglen
**Second:** Ricardo Griffith

- Avi Douglen: YES
- Matt Tesauro: YES
- Steve Springett: YES
- Kevin Johnson: YES
- Bil Corry: YES
- Ricardo Griffith: YES
- Sam Stepanyan: YES

Passes 7-0, motion is carried to move the December meeting.

#### Discussion on AppSec EU 2025

**Background** An update on the current progress to signing a location for AppSec EU 2025 from Lauren Thomas.

#### Discussion on AppSec SF DevDay

**Background** An update on the current status of DevDay from Lauren Thomas.

#### Status update on Association Management Software Implementation

**Background** Starr Brown will provide an update on the status of the AMS implementation.

#### Status update on Meazure Blend-Ed education platform

**Background** Starr Brown will provide an update on the status of the Meazure Blend-Ed education platform.

#### Election Update

**Background** Dawn Aitken will provide an update on the status of the 2024 Board Election.

#### European entity update

**Background** Andrew van der Stock will give an update on the status of the European entity.

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

#### Closed Executive Session

Held after the public meeting adjournment.

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on 25th September 2024, at 1730 US Pacific Daylight Time.

- [September 2024](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202409)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: Matt Tesauro

***
