---

layout: col-sidebar
title: October 2024 Agenda/Minutes
date: 2024-10-22

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 22 October 2024
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1600 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2024&month=10&day=22&hour=16&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=110&p3=197&p4=64&p5=136&p6=179)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1gSN3RcFRaBLD2xj54Pk1aA0eEuHtV3SC/view?usp=sharing)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER
The meeting was called to order at 12:04 PM US Eastern by [Chairperson's Name].

[Proceed with the agenda items as per Robert's Rules of Order.]

### Board Members Present
- Sam Stepanyan
- Steve Springett
- Kevin Johnson (left at 1:41 PM)
- Avi Douglen
- Bil Corry
- Ricardo Griffith

### Board Members Absent
- Matt Tesauro (Apologies)

### Guests
- Andrew van der Stock
- Dawn Aitken
- Starr Brown
- Kelly Santalucia
- Lauren Thomas
- Chris Barbeau
- Leea Hudson-Wilson


### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

"Andrew van der Stock requested to add an item to the agenda related to corporate supporter feedback on project revitalization and website updates. 
The changes were accepted by the board."

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - September 2024](/www-board/meetings-historical/2024/202409)

- Avi Douglen: YES
- Matt Tesauro: YES
- Bil Corry: ABSTAIN
- Ricardo Griffith: YES
- Steve Springett: YES
- Sam Stepanyan: YES
- Kevin Johnson: YES

**Passes 6-0-1**.

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1bNvoG12zArADmVXL0HhCqifsJzxMjDeLWBAXuqjfFno/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance Management Report](/www-board/attachments/202409-management-report.pdf)
- [Finance Cash Flow Forecast](/www-board/attachments/202409-statement-of-cash-flow.pdf)
- [Finance Uncategorized Items](/www-board/attachments/202409-uncat-items.xlsx)

**Financial Report**
- The San Francisco event was highlighted as a financial success, but P&L data would be reviewed in November’s financial report
- There were concerns about discrepancies in CRM reporting.
- Discussion of the renewal of the Secure Flag member benefit, set to expire on December 1, 2024.

### e-Votes and Special Meeting Motions to read into minutes

#### Motion to sign the Barcelona Convention Center Agreement for OWASP AppSec EU 2025

**Background**: This is an e-vote to allow the Treasurer and Executive Director to review, approve, and co-sign the Barcelona convention center contract for AppSec EU 2025, to be held in late May 2025. The current value of the contract is 150,000 euro, but staff are reviewing and getting edits to the contract, which may affect the price a little (+/- 5-10%), so a maximum ask is 200,000 euro to allow an e-vote to go ahead.

- Discussion is here: https://groups.google.com/a/owasp.org/g/global-board/c/7bJAI2FlbmU/m/zblOPg9OAAAJ
- Contract is here: https://groups.google.com/a/owasp.com/g/global-board-internal/c/4a6EegHHVb8/m/DhYlK0dMAAAJ

Motion: "Resolved, upon successful finalization of the agreement between OWASP and the Barcelona Convention Center for OWASP AppSec EU 2025, the Board authorizes the Treasurer and Executive Director to review the final contract and, if agreed, co-sign the agreement to a maximum value of 200,000 euros."

**Sponsor:** Bil Corry
**Second:** Avi Douglen

- Avi Douglen: Vote not recorded
- Matt Tesauro: YES
- Bil Corry: YES
- Ricardo Griffith: YES
- Steve Springett: YES
- Sam Stepanyan: YES
- Kevin Johnson: YES

**Passes 6-0**.

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Update on the AMS progress

**Background** Starr Brown to present to the Board on the current status of the GlueUp Association Management System (AMS) project.

#### Discussion on new chapters and reactivation

**Background** Dawn Aitken to present to the Board on the current status of new chapters and reactivation of dormant chapters.

#### Discussion on website redesign

**Background** Andrew van der Stock to discuss with the Board how we can improve the state of the OWASP website, including potentially a redesign.

"Discussion on the need for a more comprehensive redesign to align with project revitalization efforts."

**Actions**
- Avi asked Sam if he would collaborate with Andrew on developing the brief for the website redesign. 

#### Discussion on Budget 2025

**Background** The Board to discuss adding new programs and initiatives for 2025, including potentially the website, the OWASP Secure Development Certification, Secure Architecture, and others

"Swag budget and website development were noted as potential areas for increased investment."

#### Discussion on re-chartering various committees

**Background** Avi Douglen to discuss with the Board the re-chartering of various committees, including the Projects Committee, the Chapters Committee, and the Events Committee.

* Education Committee: Volunteers were identified for vice chair roles, with a formal vote expected at the next meeting.
* Projects Revitalization: The board discussed the need for project revitalization and improvements to the website’s project presentation.

**Action**

"Board members are tasked with requesting their respective committees to review and update their charters. 
Sam also recommended reviewing the committee policy and proposing any necessary updates."

#### Update on the Communications Committee

**Background** Andrew van der Stock to present to the Board on the current status of the Communications Committee.

"Avi suggested renaming the committee to the 'Outreach and Communications Committee,' 
emphasizing that the name should include 'Outreach.' Progress was also noted regarding potential plans for PiCon and
 participation in upcoming events such as QCon."

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

**GlueUp AMS Project**: Starr Brown updated the board on the GlueUp AMS project status."

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on 26th November 2024, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [November 2024](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202411)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Avi Douglen
Second: Ricardo Griffith
