---

layout: col-sidebar
title: March 2024 Agenda/Minutes
date: 2024-03-26

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 26 March 2024
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1600 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2024&month=3&day=26&hour=16&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=110&p3=197&p4=64&p5=136&p6=179)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Recording](https://youtu.be/zm_PXQw1sRo)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

**Board Members**
- Sam Stepanyan 
- Steve Springett  (It was recorded that Steve departed from the meeting at 12:55 PM EST.)
- Kevin Johnson  (It was recorded that Kevin departed the meeting at 1:35 PM EST.)
- Avi Douglen 
- Matt Tesauro 
- Bil Corry 
- Ricardo Griffith 

**Guests**
- Andrew van der Stock 
- Dawn Aitken 
- Lauren Thomas 
- Chris Barbeau 
- Leea Hudson-Wilson 
- Jason C. McDonald 
- Rick Mello (It was recorded that Rick joined the meeting at 12:49 PM EST then left 1:20 PM EST.)

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - February 2024](/www-board/meetings-historical/2024/202402)

#### Vote
- Avi Douglen: YES
- Bil Corry: YES
- Kevin Johnson: YES
- Matt Tesauro: YES
- Ricardo Griffith: YES
- Sam Stepanyan: YES
- Steve Springett: YES

**PASSES 7-0**

"It is resolved that the minutes aere approved."

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1FBHRRdku6svCZn0MtG5AjdTFjwAZufWHeX27309hh74/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance Management Report](/www-board/attachments/202402-management-report.pdf)
- [Finance Statement of Cash Flow](/www-board/attachments/202402-statement-of-cash-flow.xlsx)

### e-Votes and Special Meeting Motions to read into minutes

#### Motion to approve the 2024 Budget

**Background** Each year, the Board must must pass a budget to allow for program expenses and desired income. Sam Stepenyan will discuss budget details.

Motion: "Resolved, the 2024 Budget is approved."

- [2024 Budget Vote](/www-board/attachments/202403-budget-evote.pdf)

**Sponsor:** Kevin Johnson
**Second:** Steve Springett

- Avi Douglen: YES
- Bil Corry: YES
- Kevin Johnson: YES
- Matt Tesauro: YES
- Ricardo Griffith: YES
- Sam Stepanyan: YES
- Steve Springett: YES

PASSES 7-0

**Discussion about the budget passed by e-vote.**

"Andrew reviewed the FY24 Budget, noting it was approved via e-vote. Sam called for more funds for development community outreach and marketing materials for conferences, highlighting the lack of SWAG budget. Andrew cited sending Jason to PyCon as an example of strategic focus. Dawn noted that such expenses exceeded the co-marketing budget, but additional funds could be approved by Andrew as needed. The possibility of recasting the budget was discussed with Chris, who stated it's not a usual practice, though Andrew indicated it might be necessary."

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Motion to approve Rick Mello as a Compliance Officer

Bio - TBA

**Motion:** "Resolved, that Rick Mello is approved as an OWASP Compliance Officer, pursuant to Rick becoming a paid Individual Member."

**Sponsor:** Ricardo Griffith
**Second:** Avi Douglen

- Avi Douglen: YES
- Bil Corry: YES
- Kevin Johnson: YES
- Matt Tesauro: YES
- Ricardo Griffith: YES
- Sam Stepanyan: YES

PASSES 6-0

#### Motion to Approve the OWASP Learning Platform

**Background** Jason C. McDonald will present on a proposal to create an OWASP Learning Platform. The platform will be a place for OWASP to host training materials, courses, and other educational content. The platform will be open to the public, but will also offer premium content to OWASP members and corporate supporters. The platform will be a source of revenue for OWASP, and will also help to further OWASP's mission of education and training.

- [OWASP Learning Platform]()

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the Foundation can acquire the Blend-Ed platform for the purpose of creating the OWASP Learning Platform, as described in the proposal."

**Sponsor:** Kevin Johnson
**Second:** Avi Douglen

"Avi has declared a personal interest in this matter."

**Addendum:** The Board concluded that a vote is not necessary at this stage. Avi recommended proceeding with the next steps to collect further information and report back to the Board. A Board vote will be mandated upon the involvement of a contract.

**Motion is tabled for now.**

#### Executive Session

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on 23 April 2024, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [April 2024](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202404.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Avi Douglen
Second: Ricardo Griffith
