---

layout: col-sidebar
title: November 2024 Agenda/Minutes
date: 2024-11-26

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 26 November 2024
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2024&month=11&day=26&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=110&p3=197&p4=64&p5=136&p6=179)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1sm2nZIWu7PqinV59jszXGuCkJC_J_fKd/view?usp=sharing)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

**Board Members**
- Sam Stepanyan: YES
- Steve Springett: YES
- Kevin Johnson: YES
- Avi Douglen: YES
- Matt Tesauro: YES (leading meeting)
- Bil Corry: YES
- Ricardo Griffith: YES

**Guests**
- Andrew van der Stock
- Dawn Aitken
- Starr Brown
- Kelly Santalucia
- Leea Hudson-Wilson
- Harold Blankenship
- Chris Barbeau
- Grant Ongers
- Verdana Verma Sehgal

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

"Grant requested to the board to change the agenda to include an item for appointing Verdana Verna as a Compliance Officer."

**Votes**
- Sam Stepanyan: YES
- Steve Springett: YES
- Kevin Johnson: YES
- Avi Douglen: YES
- Matt Tesauro: YES
- Bil Corry: YES
- Ricardo Griffith: YES

**Results:**
Passes 7-0

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - October 2024](/www-board/meetings-historical/2024/202410)

**Votes**
- Sam Stepanyan: YES
- Steve Springett: YES
- Kevin Johnson: YES
- Avi Douglen: YES
- Matt Tesauro: YES
- Bil Corry: YES
- Ricardo Griffith: YES

**Results:**
Passes 7-0

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/13YOonn7Cfi_wuiDOSoEnzGQxnsW4Kp63FafiYuLXD6A/edit?usp=sharing)
    "Andrew van der Stock walked the board through the management report."

- [Finance Management Report](/www-board/attachments/202410-management-report.pdf)
   "Andrew van der Stock will direct that CharityCFO to move funds in PayPal to the OWASP checking account. Should be cleared out on a monthly basis."

- [Finance Cash Flow Forecast](/www-board/attachments/202410-statement-of-cash-flow.pdf)
   "Andrew van der Stock will move money in Chase. "

- [Finance AR Aging Report](/www-board/attachments/202411-ARAgingSummary.pdf)
- [Finance Uncategorized Income](/www-board/attachments/202411-uncat-income.xlsx)
- [Finance Uncategorized Expenses](/www-board/attachments/202411-uncat-expenses.xlsx)

"Andrew van der Stock is waiting for the management letter as it is the first full year."

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Motion to Appoint Verdana Verma as Compliance Officer
"Resolved, Vandana Verma is appointed as a Compliance Officer as of January 1, 2025."

**Sponsor**: Avi Douglen
**Second**: Matt Tesauro

**Votes**
- Sam Stepanyan: YES
- Steve Springett: YES
- Kevin Johnson: YES
- Avi Douglen: YES
- Matt Tesauro: YES
- Bil Corry: YES
- Ricardo Griffith: YES

##### Results:
**Passes 7-0**

#### AppSec NZ Discussion - Global AppSec AsiaPac

Discussion on if this is a Global AppSec or not with Lauren Thomas, if it replaces AppSec Days Singapore.

"There should be three AppSec events per year. Discussions around NZ for AppSec event. Sinapore will go ahead as an AppSec Day."

"Resolved: there will be only two Global AppSec conferences, allowing the 2025 Board in 2025 to re-evaluate the AsiaPacific conference strategy"

**Sponsor**: Matt Tesauro
**Second**: Avi Douglen

**Votes**
- Sam Stepanyan: YES
- Steve Springett: YES
- Kevin Johnson: YES
- Avi Douglen: YES
- Matt Tesauro: YES
- Bil Corry: NO
- Ricardo Griffith: YES

##### Results:
**Passes 6-1**

#### AMS Update

Starr Brown to present an update on the AMS implementation and go live.

"Sam S. had questions on GlueUp. Conversation with GlueUp offline"

#### Website Discussion

Steve Springett to lead a discussion on the website re-development, including setting aside a reasonable budget to get it done in 1H 2025.

"A small budget should be allocated for 2025.  Working group on the board to get this operational."

#### Certification in 2025 Budget

Sam Stepanyan will discuss adding Certification to 2025 budget.

"Sam recommends line item for 2025 budget 50K. Fesibility studies should be done and Andrew van der Stock will allocate 50K for the Education and Training Committee for 2025. Sam, Steve and Ricardo will form working group."

#### OKRs for Executive Director

The Board will discuss the OKRs for the Executive Director, with Andrew van der Stock to meet with Steve Springett after his annual leave to finalize before the December Board meeting.

"Andrew van der Stock requesting the Board to review the spreadsheet provided by Steve. Andrew to share the Excel spreadsheet to other directors."

#### Additional roles in 2025

If time permits, a discussion on hiring new roles in 2025, and ensuring that there is adequate budget set aside for these roles.

"Will be discussed in the December 2024 public Board meeting."

#### Executive Session for Cairo

The Board will adjourn for an executive session with the Cairo Chapter leaders.

"We do not have time to discuss, will be prioritized in an Executive Session TBD."

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on 17th December, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [December 2024](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202412)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Matt Tesauro
Second: Steve Springett
