---

layout: col-sidebar
title: February 2026 Videoconference
date: 2026-02-24

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 24 February 2026
- Time: 12PM US Eastern Standard Time, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2026&month=02&day=24&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=224&p2=64&p3=24&p4=179&p5=173&p6=136&p7=176&p8=152&p9=16)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/84767764899?pwd=JUTby5vl5GeexaBxUswgHraNWbcrdz.1&jst=2)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

Board Members
- Ricardo Griffith
- Steve Springett
- Harold Blankenship
- Sam Stepanyan
- Ashwini Siddhi
- Kelly Santalucia

Guests
- Andrew van der Stock
- Dawn Aitken
- Hayden Corry
- Starr Brown
- Christian Capellan
- Stacey Ebbs

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://policy.owasp.org/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://policy.owasp.org/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://policy.owasp.org/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - January Private Board Meeting 2026](/meetings-historical/2026/202601-02)
- [Previous Meeting Minutes - January 2026](/meetings-historical/2026/202601-03)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1CdYcmfP518tAYiAvwjcZiu4L-zfUPZRkQn4i6BDDN6E/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance Board Summary](/attachments/202601-finance-summary.pdf)

### New business

#### FOSDEM Update

**Background** A trip report from Steve Springett on his attendance at FOSDEM 2026, including any key takeaways, insights, or action items for the Board to consider.

Suggested time: 5 minutes

#### 25th Anniversary Planning Update

**Background** An update on upcoming activities in the next 30 days for OWASP's 25th anniversary, including any progress made since the last update, any challenges or issues that have arisen, and the timeline for completion.

Suggested time: 5 minutes

#### Impact Report Update

**Background** An update on the status of the OWASP Impact Report, including any progress made since the last update, any challenges or issues that have arisen, and the timeline for completion.

Suggested time: 5 minutes

#### Strategy Update

**Background** Stacey Ebbs will provide an update on the status of the OWASP Strategy, including any progress made since the last update, any challenges or issues that have arisen, and the timeline for completion.

Suggested time: 5 minutes

#### Update on status of policy reviews

**Background** A short discussion on the current status of the policy review process, including any outstanding policies that require attention and the timeline for completion.

**Priorities**

- By-Laws - Andrew and Ricardo
- Committee Policy - Harold 
- Community Review Process Policy (Exceptions caveat) - Ricardo
- Code of Conduct / Board Code of Conduct - (Must review by Legal) - Marisa
- Events Policy (Speaker/Training Agreement) (attendee code of conduct)- Marisa
- Whistleblower Anti-retaliation Policy (defines Compliance Team) - Grant and Steve
- AI Policy (new) - Andrew with Ricardo and Ashwini help
- Social Media Policy - Ashwini

Lower priority, but still important:

- Project Policy - Add AI language - Steve
- Member Policy - Sam
- Chapter Policy - Sam and Kelly
- Signatory Policy - Harold

Suggested time: 10 minutes

#### Call for new committee leadership

**Background** Current status of committee leadership and a call for volunteers to lead or co-lead committees.

Suggested time: 10 minutes

#### Membership Policy amendment proposal

**Background** The Board will discuss a proposal to modify the Membership Policy to add specific benefits for Distinguished Lifetime Members. This change aims to recognize and reward long-term commitment and contributions to OWASP.

**Summary:**

- Proposal: Distinguished Lifetime Members receive lifetime leader benefits, including leader discounts and access privileges.
- Board voiced general support.
- Sam will prepare a formal policy modification for next meeting.

- [Draft Membership Policy](https://github.com/OWASP/www-policy/pull/160)

Suggested discussion time: 10 minutes

#### Update on OWASP Leaders being an OWASP Member

**Background** An update and discussion on the status of OWASP Leaders being required to be an OWASP Member, including any challenges or issues that have arisen and potential solutions, including Leader annual declaration status in a proper e-signature system.

Suggested time: 5 minutes

#### Meetup and Website status update

**Background** An update on the status of OWASP Meetup migration and new website, including anything that would be helpful for the Board to know, and any support that the Board can provide. Also looking at the prior attendee data into MailChimp to ensure that Chapters can continue to communicate with their attendees.

Suggested time: 5 minutes

#### Update on initiatives and action plans resulting from Amsterdam Board Summit

**Background** An update from Marisa and the wider Board on the initiatives and action plans resulting from the Amsterdam Board Summit, including any progress made since the last update, any challenges or issues that have arisen, and the timeline for completion.

Suggested time: 10 minutes

#### Update on OWASP Audit Board Committee

**Background** A quick update from Ricardo Griffith on the status of the OWASP Audit Board Committee, including any progress made since the last update, any challenges or issues that have arisen, and the timeline for completion.

- [Draft Global Board Audit Committee Charter](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nOyWCwmHXcQ8cCO5UBIYWPvrZo-guTdfiW3-ne3yPmE/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.12disdac53qd)

Suggested time: 5 minutes

### Executive Session

The Board will adjourn to executive session to discuss confidential matters. Only Board members and invited guests may attend executive session. The minutes of the executive session will be kept separately and will not be made public.

Suggested time: 20-30 minutes

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on March 24, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [March 2026](https://board.owasp.org/meetings/202603.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: TBA

***
