---

layout: col-sidebar
title: March 2022 Videoconference
date: 2022-03-22

---
### CALL TO ORDER

**Board Members**

- Vandana Verma Sehgal
- Grant Ongers
- Avi Douglen
- Glenn ten Cate
- Martin Knobloch
- Joubin Jabbari
- Bil Corry

**Guests**

- Andrew van der Stock
- Tom Pappas
- Dawn Aitken
- Harold Blankenship
- Lisa Jones
- Kelly Santalucia
- Lauren Thomas
- Yvonne Tingleaf
- Zoe Braiterman
- Loredana Mancini


### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

	@@ -39,6 +55,20 @@ Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition
### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - February 2022](/www-board/meetings-historical/202202.html)
  - Vandana Verma motions, Grant Ongers seconds 

**Vote:**

- Vandana Verma: Yes
- Grant Ongers: Yes
- Avi Douglen: Yes
- Bil Corry: Yes
- Glenn ten Cate: Yes
- Joubin Jabbari: Yes
- Martin Knobloch: Yes

**Passes 7-0**


### STAFF REPORTS

	@@ -69,7 +99,7 @@ Vandana Verma   Yay
Avi Douglen     Yay
```

**Motion passes 5-0**

#### Motion to approve Ukraine measures

	@@ -89,7 +119,7 @@ Vandana Verma   Yay
Avi Douglen     Yay
```

**Motion passes 5/1**

### NEW BUSINESS

	@@ -114,6 +144,10 @@ It is likely that no vote is needed for the revised strategy, as the 2020 Board

Fiona Collins to present a public briefing to the Board. At this time, there are no confidential issues, so the report can be public.

#### WIA/DIA Committee Briefing

Zoe Braiterman and Loredana Mancini presented a briefing on the Committee to the Board, and discussed their goals and activities. 

#### Discussion on Leaders as Members

The new association management system requires leaders to be members. There is spirited discussion within the Board and the community on how best to achieve this. Let's work out a workable approach to discuss with the Leaders at the Leader Town Halls. Please attend as many of these town halls as you can. We will be recording the sessions if you can't make one or more of them. The recordings will be available to the community afterwards.
	@@ -122,6 +156,9 @@ The new association management system requires leaders to be members. There is s
- [Leader Town Hall March 31 1300 US EDT](https://www.meetup.com/owaspfoundation/events/284631152/)
- [Leader Town Hall March 31 2030 US EDT](https://www.meetup.com/owaspfoundation/events/284631193)

There was general agreement to maintain the existing policy of granting Complimentary Membership to Leaders in good standing who request it. This is separate from the discussion on revising the pricing model for membership fees. 
Joubin will be working with Andrew on the policy updates as needed for Leaders as Members, after the Leaders Town Halls. 

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion
	@@ -133,6 +170,6 @@ The next general Board meeting is on April 26, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.
"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Chair
Second: Vice-Chair

***
