---

layout: col-sidebar
title: May 2022 Agenda/Minutes
date: 2022-05-24

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 24 May 2022
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2022&month=5&day=24&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=16&p3=110&p4=197&p5=217&p6=136&p7=179&p8=438)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/83392905205?pwd=bXpFOG1oSEMwUTJBTjlQMzVsT1FQdz09)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

**Board Members**

- Vandana Verma Sehgal
- Grant Ongers
- Avi Douglen
- Glenn ten Cate
- Martin Knobloch
- Joubin Jabbari
- Bil Corry

**Guests**

- Andrew van der Stock
- Kelly Santalucia
- Harold Blankenship
- Dawn Aitken
- Lisa Jones
- Lauren Thomas
- Tom Pappas
- Bjoern Kimminich 
- Steve Springett

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - April 2022](/www-board/meetings-historical/202204) 

This was not prepared before the meeting, the minutes will be approved by e-Vote. 

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Board Public Actions kanban](https://github.com/OWASP/www-board/projects/1)
- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1RjYAfrQHBmlRbNwTqJcJxO6qUnOos9vZ3yC091fyLIQ/edit?usp=sharing)
- [April 2022 Financial Narrative](/attachments/202205-finance-narrative.docx)
- [April 2022 Financial Package](/attachments/202205-finance-package.xlsx)

### REPORTS

[Staff reports](#staff-reports)

- [Board Oversight Reporting & ED Report](#executive-director)
- [Finance](#finance)

### e-Votes and Special Meeting Motions to read into minutes

None this month

### NEW BUSINESS

### Vendor neutrality / co-marketing / partnership policy

Proper definitions. Discussion

Sponsor: Vandana Verma
Second: Avi Douglen

We will continue to work on the vendor relationship policy, which should encompass the various arrangements that are relevant. 
In any event vendor neutrality is a core principle and cannot be violated. 


#### Update project committee

Bjorn and Steve

#### Update on the Grant Process

An update presented by Harold Blankenship on improvements to the Grant Process.
Glenn will work with Martin on the grants policy, Tom will assist where relevant.

### Update on OpenSSF/SBOM

#### Update on the bylaws

A discussion on progress of the bylaws update.

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on June 28, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [June 2022](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202206.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Vandana
Second: Grant

***

### Staff Reports

#### Executive Director

See slides

#### Finance

See narrative and package above.

