---

layout: col-sidebar
title: July 2023 Agenda/Minutes
date: 2023-07-25

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 25 July 2023
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1600 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2023&month=07&day=25&hour=16&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=16&p3=110&p4=197&p5=217&p6=136&p7=179&p8=438)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/87347729318?pwd=dVgvdFdIK01FUmdOQm90cEc0c2FGUT09)
- [Meeting Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ilqTQ08MbsnGHB7hA0xUt83iV9ZBkbEa/view?usp=sharing)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

Board Members
- Grant Ongers
- Avi Douglen
- Bil Corry
- Matt Tesauro
- Glenn ten Cate
- Ricardo Griffith
- Vandana Verma Sehgal

Guests
- Andrew van der Stock
- Shelby Graham
- Dawn Aitken
- Harold Blankenship
- Kelly Santalucia
- Lauren Thomas


### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - June 2023](/www-board/meetings-historical/202306)

### PRE-READING MATERIAL and REPORTS

- [Executive Director Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/18QJcCCVzdZM6cuCjvOd7JUzZfFdX-C0bZ-4hJBc8uKk/edit#slide=id.g1f83155140a_0_29)
- [Finance Board Narrative](/www-board/attachments/202306-finance-narrative.docx)
- [Finance Board Package](/www-board/attachments/202306-finance-package.xlsx)

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Motion to transfer funds to OWASP's new bank accounts

**Background** OWASP is in the process of changing its finances to a new bank. The new bank accounts have been opened, and need to be funded within 30 days or otherwise fees will apply. This motion is to transfer seed funds from the old bank to the new bank. In particular, \$250,000 from a Citizens money market account to the new checking account, and \$50,000 to the new savings account. Once we have fully adopted Charity CFO, Citizens will be closed and all funds transferred to the new bank. This motion is solely to transfer seed funds to the new bank, not to close Citizens at this time.

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the Board of Directors authorizes the transfer of \$250,000 from the Citizens checking account to the new Chase checking account, and \$50,000 from the Citizens savings account to the new Chase savings account."

**Sponsor:** Bil Corry
**Second:** Grant Ongers

- Matt - Yes
- Bil - Yes
- Avi - Yes
- Glenn - yes
- Vandana - Yes
- Grant - Yes

PASSES 6-0

#### Motion to update OWASP's vision and mission on the website

**Background** A pull request has been prepared that updates portions of the OWASP website to display the current OWASP vision and mission. The pull request is available at [https://github.com/OWASP/owasp.github.io/pull/255](https://github.com/OWASP/owasp.github.io/pull/255).

**Motion:** "Resolved, that the OWASP website is updated to reflect the current vision and mission of OWASP."

**Sponsor** Grant Ongers
**Second** Avi Douglen

- Matt - Yes
- Bil - Yes
- Avi - Yes
- Glenn - Yes
- Vandana - Yes
- Grant - Yes

PASSES 6-0

#### Discussion on streamlining policy

**Background** Many of the policies have operational and guidance within existing policies, which not only restricts the Foundation and Board, but additionally, hampers understanding and legibility of the policies themselves. 

Avi will lead the discussion on streamlining the draft travel policy as an example.

- [Draft Travel Policy](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wxxPngbBUGTG9DjWmWPONhLHkEeWxK6LiowgmOQoxU0/edit?usp=sharing)

**Motion from the floor:** "Resolved, that previous Board decisions on class of flight tickets as relates to the Travel policy are repealed, effective immediately. These will be eventually replaced with an approved Travel Policy and appropriate guidelines."

**Sponsor:** Avi Douglen
**Second:** Grant Ongers

- Glenn - Yes
- Matt - Yes
- Bil - Yes
- Vandana - Yes
- Avi - Yes
- Ricardo - Yes
- Grant - Yes

PASSES 7-0

#### Discussion and status of the OWASP Foundation Strategy

Avi and Grant to discuss the current status of the OWASP Foundation Strategy if time permits.

#### Executive Session

**Background** The Board will enter into Executive Session at 1 pm US Eastern.

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on 22 August 2023, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [August 2023](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202308.html)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Grant Ongers
Second: Avi Douglen
