---

layout: col-sidebar
title: December 2024 Agenda/Minutes 
date: 2024-12-17

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 17 December 2024
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1700 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2024&month=12&day=17&hour=17&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=110&p3=197&p4=64&p5=136&p6=179)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://youtu.be/nra85HNZdhw)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

**Board Members Present:**
- Sam Stepanyan
- Steve Springett
- Kevin Johnson (Kevin left at approximately 1:50PM EST)
- Avi Douglen
- Matt Tesauro
- Bil Corry
- Ricardo Griffith

**Guests**
- Andrew van der Stock
- Dawn Aitken
- Starr Brown
- Kelly Santalucia
- Chris Barbeau
- Harold Blankenship
- Hayden Corry
- Hassan Mourad
- Vaibhav Gupta


### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

Motion: To discuss the Cairo Chapter before any other new business.

Moved by: Kevin Johnson
Seconded by: Avi Douglen

**Board Members**
- Sam Stepanyan:YES 
- Steve Springett: YES
- Kevin Johnson: YES
- Avi Douglen: YES
- Matt Tesauro: YES
- Bil Corry: YES
- Ricardo Griffith: YES

**Results**
Passes 7-0

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - November 2024](/www-board/meetings-historical/2024/202411)

**Board Members**
- Sam Stepanyan:YES 
- Steve Springett: YES
- Kevin Johnson: YES
- Avi Douglen: YES
- Matt Tesauro: YES
- Bil Corry: YES
- Ricardo Griffith: YES

**Results**
Passes 7-0

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/17GrB85J-rmU2L3JcyLfS-p98xEMec-OVIGBR5dAXUpI/edit?usp=sharing)

"Andrew van der Stock will send out a Doodle to get dates and a times for Board of Director's meeting and the in-person meeting."

- [Finance November Management Report](/www-board/attachments/202411-management-report.pdf)
- [Finance November Uncategorized Income](/www-board/attachments/202412-uncat-income.xlsx)
- [Finance November Uncategorized Expenses](/www-board/attachments/202412-uncat-expenses.xlsx)
- [Finance AR Aging Summary](/www-board/attachments/202412-ar-aging-summary.pdf)

### NEW BUSINESS

#### Executive Session for Cairo

The Board will adjourn for an executive session with the Cairo Chapter leaders.

"Hassan Mourad discussed the Cairo chapter. Discussion occured and Andrew van der Stock recommended an internal discussion and vote at a later date and time."

#### Discussion on Foundation generating revenue

**Background** A discussion of a for-profit entity to generate revenue for the Foundation.

"Steve led the discussion on an alternate revenue source. A working group will be established by Steve, Avi and Sam for diuscussion for the 2025 Board."

#### Update on OWASP EU vzw

**Background** An update on the state of OWASP EU vzw.

"Andrew to provide an update after discussing with legal and update the board by early next week."

#### OKRs for Executive Director

The Board will discuss the OKRs for the Executive Director.

"To be discussed in the Board submit in March.  Andrew van der Stock needs time to work on this item."

#### Discussion on Director Requirements

**Background** Avi Douglen to discuss a proposal to modify the requirements for Directors.

"Discussion tabled until the next board meeting. The proposal will be distributed via email in advance for review."

#### Committee Policy Discussion

**Background** Sam Stepanyan will lead a discussion on the roles and responsibilities of Committee members, and the policy for Committees, and voting procedures.

"Sam facilitated the discussion on Committee policies. It was agreed to form a Policy Review Team consisting of Sam Stepanyan, Andrew van der Stock, and Ricardo Griffith to conduct an initial review and provide recommendations."

#### In person meeting discussion

**Background** Scheduling an in-person meeting in 2025.

"**Action Item**: Andrew will distribute Doodle polls to determine the preferred location and the most suitable date and time."

#### Chapter Creation Update

**Background** An update on the status of the chapter creation process and status in the AMS.

"Andrew says they re-opened the chapter creation process."

#### Additional roles in 2025

**Proposed Roles**:

* **Community Manager**: To provide support for sales, membership growth, and project engagement.
* **Grant Writer**: (Suggested by Steve) To explore and secure additional funding opportunities through grants.

The Board will deliberate on the necessity, scope, and budgetary impact of these roles in alignment with organizational goals and priorities in the March in-person meeting.

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on January 28th 2025, at 12 pm US Eastern Time.

- [January 2025](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202501)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Avi Douglen
Second: Matt Tesauro
