---

layout: col-sidebar
title: May 2024 Videoconference
date: 2024-05-28

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 28 May 2024
- Time: 12PM US Eastern, UTC 1600 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2024&month=5&day=28&hour=16&min=0&sec=0&p1=398&p2=110&p3=197&p4=64&p5=136&p6=179)
- Location: Remote
- Call-in: [Zoom Meeting](https://us06web.zoom.us/j/88966282109?pwd=tgbr7MUDEev6ZBIGh4wMsk2cSradte.1)

## Agenda

### CALL TO ORDER

The meeting of the OWASP Foundation Board of Directors was called to order at _12:02 PM EST_ on _Tuesday, May 28, 2024_ by the Chair, _Avi Douglen_. The meeting was held online via _Zoom_.

**Board Members Present:**

- Sam Stepanyan
- Steve Springett
- Avi Douglen
- Matt Tesauro
- Bil Corry
- Ricardo Griffith

**Board Members Absent:**

- Kevin Johnson (sent apologies via email)

**Guests:**

- Andrew van der Stock
- Dawn Aitken
- Harold Blankenship
- Kelly Santalucia
- Lauren Thomas
- Chris Barbeau
- Leea Hudson-Wilson (left the meeting at 1:00 PM EST)
- Jason C. McDonald
- Starr Brown
- Rob van der Veer (left the meeting at 1:02 PM EST)
- Bernardt (left the meeting at 12:57 PM EST)

The Chair declared that a quorum was present and the meeting could proceed.

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda, unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws, including adding, altering, or tabling of motions, is permitted by following Robert's Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.

**Motion:** To change the order of the agenda to accommodate the discussion on the EU tax entity with a tax expert.

**Vote:**

- Sam Stepanyan: Yes
- Steve Springett: Yes
- Avi Douglen: Yes
- Matt Tesauro: Yes
- Bil Corry: Yes
- Ricardo Griffith: Yes

**Result:** The motion passes with a vote of 6-0.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - April 2024](/www-board/meetings-historical/202404)

**Vote:**

- Sam Stepanyan: Yes
- Steve Springett: Yes
- Avi Douglen: Yes
- Matt Tesauro: Yes
- Bil Corry: Yes
- Ricardo Griffith: Yes

**Result:** The motion passes with a vote of 6-0.

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1M3g6JibW09qOZhdlcUcIeOpk-G8dydX1EwMMFGOmwbQ/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance: Management Report](/www-board/attachments/202404-management-report.pdf)
- [Finance: Statement of Cash Flow](/www-board/attachments/202404-statement-of-cash-flow.pdf)

### NEW BUSINESS

#### European Tax Entity Discussion

**Background:** 
The Board wishes to discuss the EU tax entity with a tax expert.

**Discussion:**
The tax expert provided advice to the Board on the pros and cons of maintaining an European entity. 

**Decision:**
The Board confirmed the decision to keep the Belgium entity to run events in Europe. It was deemed that the Foundation needs at least one (1) Belgium-based director on the European board.

#### European Liaison Discussion

**Background:** The Board will discuss the European liaison with CEN/CENELEC, ECMA, and the Eclipse Foundation.

**Discussion:**
The topic was mentioned previously, but Rob left the meeting, so it might be worthwhile getting him back for a future Board meeting. Steve provided an update on CycloneDX, where he hopes it will become an ECMA standard.

**Action:**
Andrew will invite Rob to the next public Board meeting. 

#### Revisit Website Proposal Discussion

**Background:** The Board will revisit the website proposal discussion.

**Motion:** Proposed that this topic be tabled until the June 2024 board meeting as this is a longer conversation than we have time for at this meeting.

**Vote:**

- Sam Stepanyan: Yes
- Steve Springett: Yes
- Avi Douglen: Yes
- Matt Tesauro: Yes
- Bil Corry: Yes
- Ricardo Griffith: Yes

**Result:** The motion passes with a vote of 6-0.


#### Blend Ed Discussion / Update

**Background:** The Board will discuss the BlendEd program and its progress, including the list of requirements, financials, and progress.

**Discussion:**
- List of requirements
- Financials
- Progress

** Notes:** We already have a contract signed. Jason provided an update, mentioning some delay in getting BlendEd implemented. Jason will work with the Education and Training Committee on designing the proposal on how we would vet, establish, and update courses to potentially present to the Board for the July meeting. Jason managed to secure potential domain names to use totally approximate $30.00 for the year.

#### Discussion on Committees

**Background:** The Board will discuss the current state of committees, continuing the discussion from the JFK Board meeting.

**Discussion:**
- Recording of meetings
- Review of charters
- Committee meeting policy

**Actions and Notes:**
- Ricardo will research if a board member can serve as an officer on a committee.
- Ricardo noted that the Education and Training Committee will require the ability to record their meetings.
- Various board members noted and agreed that committee charters should be revised as appropriate.
- Andrew van der Stock noted that the committee policies should be clarified in terms of when and who on a committee should vote.

#### Reschedule the June Board Meeting

**Background:** The Board will discuss rescheduling the June Board meeting.

**Motion:** Resolved, the Board reschedules the June public Board meeting to 26th June 2024, at 1730 Lisbon time.

**Sponsor:** Avi Douglen  
**Second:** Matt Tesauro

**Vote:**

- Sam Stepanyan: Yes
- Steve Springett: Yes
- Avi Douglen: Yes
- Matt Tesauro: Yes
- Bil Corry: Yes
- Ricardo Griffith: Yes

**Result:** The motion passes with a vote of 6-0.

#### Executive Session

**Background** The Board will adjourn to a private executive session.

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on 26th June 2024, at 1730 Lisbon Time.

- [June 2024](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202406)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Avi Douglen
Second: Matt Tesauro