---

layout: col-sidebar
title: April 2025 Videoconference
date: 2025-04-22

---

## Meeting Details

- Date: 22 April 2025
- Time: 12PM US EDT, UTC 1600 [convert](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingdetails.html?year=2025&month=4&day=22&hour=16&min=0&sec=0&p1=152&p2=176&p3=110&p4=136&p5=179&p6=24&p7=64)
- Location: Remote
- Recording: [YouTube](https://youtu.be/ZI0EooDKvwI)

## Agenda



### CALL TO ORDER

**Board Members Present:**

- Ricardo Griffith
- Steve Springett
- Harold Blankenship
- Sam Stepanyan
- Ashwini Siddhi
- Avi Douglen 
- Diego Silva Martins

Guests
- Andrew van der Stock
- Kelly Santalucia
- Dawn Aitken
- Lauren Thomas
- Hayden Corry
- Starr Brown
- Christian Capellan
- Heather Kennedy
- Chris Barbeau
- Leea Hudson-Wilson
- Kyle Smith
  

### CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND ANTI-TRUST STATEMENT

As the Board consists of individuals from many competing organizations, OWASP and its Board shall abide by all applicable anti-trust and competition laws. To avoid any perceived or actual conflict of interest, or anti-trust concerns under US federal, state, or regulations, only the published agenda shall be discussed or voted upon, or amended as below. If there are any conflicts of interest, Board members are expected to disclose the conflict of interest and [must recuse themselves from discussion and voting](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/bylaws#section-702-disclosure-required).

- [OWASP Conflict of Interest Policy](https://owasp.org/www-policy/operational/conflict-of-interest)
- [Director's Commitment Agreement](https://owasp.org/www-policy/legal/directors-committment-agreement)

### CHANGES TO THE AGENDA

Changes to the agenda - unless otherwise prohibited by anti-trust or competition laws - including adding, altering, or tabling of motions is permitted by following Roberts Rules of Order (RONR 12th Ed) 41:63, which requires an affirmative two-thirds vote.
* Request from the Chair to reorder the agenda items to prioritize guests and finance report before other items; agreed by consensus without a formal vote.

### APPROVAL OF MINUTES

**March2025 Board Meeting Minutes Approval Vote**

- [Previous Meeting Minutes - March 2025](/www-board/meetings-historical/2025/202503)


**Board Members**

- Ashwini Siddhi: YES
- Avi Douglen: YES
- Diego Silva Martins: YES
- Harold Blankenship: YES
- Sam Stepanyan: YES
- Steve Springett: YES
- Ricardo Griffith: YES

**Results**

Passes 6-0

### PRE-READING MATERIAL

- [OWASP Foundation Board Summary](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Wuqz22inODlEWLE42YV9EfOZTMd2cC7FxPnlh1YJXPk/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Finance Management Report](/www-board/attachments/202503-finance-summary.pdf)
- [Finance Cash Flow Forecast](/www-board/attachments/202503-finance-cash.pdf)
- [Finance AR](/www-board/attachments/202503-finance-ar.pdf)

### Committee Reports

#### Chapter Committee

**Q1 2025 and Charter Update presented by OWASP Chapter Committee Chair - Kyle Smith**
* Updated Chapter Committee Charter Proposal for review: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MT7H-Bo65LK5ZWiX_hthO70fglhA0QA5gOdWmegIVXU/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MT7H-Bo65LK5ZWiX_hthO70fglhA0QA5gOdWmegIVXU/edit?usp=sharing)



### NEW BUSINESS

#### Discussion Videography and Photography at AppSec EU 2025

Discussion on promoting volunteers to video and photograph at AppSec EU 2025. Call for creatives to volunteer to help capture the event.

#### Discussion on establishing a Funding committee

**Background** A Funding Committee should be established to provide strategic direction, oversight, and management of funding initiatives, ensuring that financial resources are effectively allocated in alignment with OWASP's mission and goals. The committee would be responsible for:

- Identify potential volunteers who can be a part of the committee
- Identifying potential sources of funding (e.g., grants, sponsorships, donations, partnerships)
- Overseeing fundraising campaigns and initiatives
- Managing the allocation of funds to various OWASP projects and events
- Ensuring transparency, accountability, and compliance with all financial regulations and OWASP community guidelines.

**Sponsor:** Ricardo Griffith
**Second:** Not needed for a discussion

#### Review Working Group Policy

**Background** The Working Group policy has been previously presented to the Board. The policy is intended to provide a framework for the establishment and management of OWASP Working Groups, ensuring that they align with OWASP's mission and goals, and operate effectively within the organization. The policy outlines the purpose, structure, and responsibilities of Working Groups, as well as the process for their creation, operation, and dissolution.

The Board wishes to ensure that the policy is ready for Community Review Process for approval at the May Board meeting.

Sponsor: Steve Springett
Second: Not needed for a discussion

#### Discussion on new EU Entity

**Background** The new EU entity will be formed on May 6, 2025. The Board wishes to have an update on the formation of the new entity and ensure that the constitution has the necessary controls to ensure that the entity is compliant with the OWASP Foundation's mission and goals.

#### Motion to change the date & time of May 2025 Board Meeting

**Background** The May Board meeting is currently scheduled for May 27, 2025 at 12 pm US Eastern Time. The Board wishes to change the time to May 28, 5 pm Central Daylight European Time for the public Board meeting at AppSec Europe 2025.

**Motion** "Resolved, that the May Board meeting be moved to May 28, 2025, at 5 pm Central Daylight European Time."

**Sponsor:** Ricard Griffith
**Second:** Avi Douglen

**Board Members**

- Ashwini Siddhi: YES
- Avi Douglen: YES
- Diego Silva Martins: YES
- Harold Blankenship: YES
- Sam Stepanyan: YES
- Steve Springett: YES
- Ricardo Griffith: YES

### COMMENTS, ANNOUNCEMENTS, AND OTHER BUSINESS

### ADJOURNMENT

#### Adjournment motion

The next general Board meeting is on May 28 2025, at 5.30 pm Central European Summer Time.

- [May 2025](https://owasp.org/www-board/meetings/202505)

"It is moved, and seconded to adjourn. Those in favor, say "aye""

Sponsor: Ricardo Griffith
Second: Avi Douglen
