---

layout: col-sidebar
title: October 2011 Videoconference
date: 2011-10-10

---

## Board meeting Minutes 10/10/2011

Present: Michael, Eoin, Tom, Dave, Seba, Matt, Kate, Mark, Jason

Agenda page: https://wiki.owasp.org/index.php/October_10,_2011

Update from Committee Chairs
Mark Bristow - Global Conferences Committee Chair (Update Presentation):
Ben Tomhave and Neil Matatall have resigned from the committee
Still have 7 active members
Active committee doing lots of work managing events around the world and improving their processes
Need approval for GConfC 2012 Budget proposal
Need approval for 2013 Summit Budget outline
AppSec North America 2011 GConfC Liaison Report
Jason Li - Global Projects Committee Chair:
Active committee work on various activities.
Working on standard project Icons
Not sure how to handle replacing Paulo
Some concerns expressed by the OWASP community with regard to using SourceForge vs. other platforms. Committee working on this.
Matt Tesauro:
To present on OWASP Finances - However, was not able to do so since he couldn’t get access to the OWASP QB file.
To address this he suggested we buy QB Online
Voted and approved to purchase online QB access (cost ~$480/yr) - vote yes by Michael, Eoin, Tom, Dave, Seba, Matt, - Kate will accomplish by 10/15/2011 - Matt will assist with migration
Potential OWASP Hires
Sarah Baso - 
Kelly S.
Paulo’s replacement
Larry’s role???
In the interim, the board has authorized Sarah and Kelly to work up to 40 hours per week on OWASP tasks, either funded by a local chapter for local chapter support, or funded by the foundation to support any of the Global Committees, through the end of Dec. 2011.
Any existing funding sources remain (local chapter or global committee), and the foundation will make up any difference.
Voted and unanimously approved by all Board members.

Action Item - Finalize job roles & responsibilities by next meeting
Tasked to: Kate driving effort, support & feedback from Board & Committee Chairs
Deadline: Finalized by November - Board Meeting


Action Item - Draft messaging to existing employees with new billing ability of up to 40 hours per work.
Focusing on global responsibilities
If Global committees need more time collectively than they can support, this needs to be brought to the board to prioritize.
Tasked to: Michael, with feedback from Board 
Deadline: Email sent by Tuesday 10/11/2011

Committee Goals
Committee Goals to be updated and commented on by the Board and comments made in the google doc by October 24th and document will be sent to the leaders list by October 25th for comment.

Action Item - Send global committee goals link to to leaders list on October 25
Tasked to: Board-send email, global committees - update goals
Email to leaders list will be sent next Monday

OWASP Legal - Financial Entities
Action Item - Create wiki list of all OWASP legal entities worldwide
Tasked to: Kate, Dave, Seba


